{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red204\green204\blue204;\red68\green85\blue130;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c80000\c80000\c80000;\cspthree\c35118\c41289\c56972;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23400\viewh15560\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature0 Azawakh|Body|Neck- Good reach of neck which is long, fine and muscular, slightly arched. The skin is fine and does not form a dewlap.Topline- Nearly straight, horizontal or rising toward the hips. Withers are quite prominent.Body- Length of body/height at withers - 9:10. Length of body is 90 percent height of hound. This ratio may be slightly higher in bitches. Fault-Body too long. Chest - Height of chest/height at withers - about 4:10. Height of chest is 40 percent of height at withers. Well developed in length, deep but without reaching elbow level. It is not very wide, but must have enough space for the heart, so the sternal region of the chest must not abruptly become narrow.\
Azawakh|Forequarters|Forequarters are seen as a whole: long, fine, almost entirely vertical. Shoulders - Long, lean and muscular and only slightly slanting seen in profile. The scapulohumeral angle is very open (about 130 degrees). Dewclaws - may or may not be removed. Feet - Rounded shape, with fine and tightly closed toes. Pads may be pigmented.\
Azawakh|Head|Eyes- Almond shaped, quite large. Their color is in keeping with the coat color. Eye rims are pigmented.Ears- Set quite high. They are fine, always drooping and flat, quite wide at the base, close to the skull, never a rose ear. Their shape is that of a triangle with a slightly rounded tip. Their base rises when the hound is attentive.\
Azawakh|Coat|Skin - Fine, tight over the whole body. Hair - Short, fine, down to none on the belly. Color - Color and markings are immaterial. Serious Fault - Harsh or semi-long coat. Coat not identical to the standard.\
Azawakh|Hindquarters|Hindquarters are seen as a whole: long and lean; legs perfectly vertical. Thighs - Long and prominent with lean muscles. The coxofemoral angle is very open (about 130 degrees). Stifle - The femorotibial angle is very open (about 140 degrees). Hock - Hock joint and hock are straight and lean, without dewclaws. Feet - round shaped, with fine and tightly closed toes. Pads may be pigmented.\
Azawakh|Fun Fact|The Azawakh is also known as the Tuareg Sloughi.\
Azawakh|Health|Azawakhs are generally a healthy breed.\
Azawakh|Grooming|he breed's coat needs only minimal upkeep with a hound glove or soft bristle brush.\
Azawakh|General Appearance|The Azawakh is an African sighthound of Afro-Asiatic type, which appeared in Europe towards 1970 and, comes from the Nigerian middle basin, among others, from the Valley of the Azawakh. For hundreds of years, he has been the companion of the nomads of the southern Sahara. Particularly leggy and elegant, the Azawakh gives a general impression of great fineness. His bone structure and musculature are transparent beneath fine and lean skin. This sighthound presents itself as a rangy dog whose body fits into a rectangle with its longer sides in a vertical position. Faults - Heavy general appearance.\
Azawakh|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Azawakhs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Azawakh|Exercise|The Azawakh possesses an uncanny combination of total loyalty and independence.\
Azawakh|History|1997 - The Azawakh was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Russian Toy|Health|Russian Toys are generally a healthy breed.\
Russian Toy|Fun Fact|The Russian Toy has been assigned the Toy Group designation.\
Russian Toy|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or slicker to prevent mats.\
Russian Toy|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Russian Toys is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Russian Toy|Exercise|The Russian Toy, like all dogs, needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Russian Toy|History|2008 - The Russian Toy was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Body|Back:Fairly short. Slight sloping from withers to rump with gentle short slope at rump to base of tail. Loins slightly tucked.Body:Well-sprung ribs, deep in rear. All ribs close together. Forelegs set rather wide apart to permit chest development. Chest deep and broad.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Head|Head:Medium length, deep through, broad skull, very pronounced cheek muscles, distinct stop; and ears are set high.Ears- Cropped or uncropped, the latter preferred. Uncropped ears should be short and held rose or half prick. Full drop to be penalized.Eyes- Dark and round, low down in skull and set far apart. No pink eyelids.Muzzle- Medium length, rounded on upper side to fall away abruptly below eyes. Jaws well defined. Underjaw to be strong and have biting power. Lips close and even, no looseness. Upper teeth to meet tightly outside lower teeth in front. Nose definitely black.Neck:Heavy, slightly arched, tapering from shoulders to back of skull. No looseness of skin.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Coat|Short, close, stiff to the touch, and glossy.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Health|The American Staffordshire Terrier is generally considered a robust and healthy breed.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Fun Fact|American Staffordshire Terriers are intelligent and excellent guardians.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Grooming|This breed\'92s short coat is low-maintenance but will require periodic brushing.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Staffordshire Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Versatile and athletic, AmStaffs like mental and physical challenges.\
American Staffordshire Terrier|History|1936 - The American Staffordshire Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Otterhound|Body|Theneckis powerful and blends smoothly into well laid back, clean shoulders, and should be of sufficient length to allow the dog to follow a trail. It has an abundance of hair; a slight dewlap is permissible. Thetoplineis level from the withers to the base of tail. The chest is deep reaching at least to the elbows on a mature hound. Forechest is evident, there is sufficient width to impart strength and endurance. There should be no indication of narrowness or weakness. The well sprung, oval rib cage extends well towards the rear of the body. The loin is short, broad and strong.\
Otterhound|Forequarters|Shoulders are clean, powerful, and well sloped with moderate angulation at shoulders and elbows. Legs are strongly boned and straight, with strong, slightly sprung pasterns. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed. Feet - Both front and rear feet are large, broad, compact when standing, but capable of spreading. They have thick, deep pads, with arched toes; they are web-footed (membranes connecting the toes allow the foot to spread).\
Otterhound|Head|Theheadis large, fairly narrow, and well covered with hair. The head should measure 11 to 12 inches from tip of nose to occiput in a hound 26 inches at the withers, with the muzzle and skull approximately equal in length. This proportion should be maintained in larger and smaller hounds. Theexpressionis open and amiable. Theeyesare deeply set. The haw shows only slightly. The eyes are dark, but eye color and eye rim pigment will complement the color of the hound. Dogs with black pigmented noses and eye rims should have darker eyes, while those with liver or slate pigment may have hazel eyes. Theears, an essential feature of this breed, are long, pendulous, and folded (the leading edge folds or rolls to give a draped appearance). They are set low, at or below eye level, and hang close to the head, with the leather reaching at least to the tip of the nose. They are well covered with hair.\
Otterhound|Coat|The coat is an essential feature of the Otterhound. Coat texture and quality are more important than the length. The outer coat is dense, rough, coarse and crisp, of broken appearance. Softer hair on the head and lower legs is natural. The outer coat is two to four inches long on the back and shorter on the extremities. A water-resistant undercoat of short wooly, slightly oily hair is essential, but in the summer months may be hard to find except on the thighs and shoulders. The ears are well covered with hair, and the tail is feathered (covered and fringed with hair). A naturally stripped coat lacking length and fringes is correct for an Otterhound that is being worked. A proper hunting coat will show a hard outer coat and wooly undercoat. The Otterhound is shown in a natural coat, with no sculpturing or shaping of the coat.\
Otterhound|Hindquarters|Thighs and second thighs are large, broad, and well muscled. Legs have moderately bent stifles with well-defined hocks. Hocks are well let down, turning neither in nor out. Legs on a standing hound are parallel when viewed from the rear. Angulation front and rear must be balanced and adequate to give forward reach and rear drive. Dewclaws, if any, on the hind legs are generally removed. Feet are as previously described.\
Otterhound|Fun Fact|The Otterhound is more rare than the Giant Panda.\
Otterhound|Health|Otterhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Otterhound|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Otterhound|General Appearance|The Otterhound is a large, rough-coated hound with an imposing head showing great strength and dignity, and the strong body and long striding action fit for a long day's work. It has an extremely sensitive nose, and is inquisitive and perseverant in investigating scents. The Otterhound hunts its quarry on land and water and requires a combination of characteristics unique among hounds-most notably a rough, double coat; and substantial webbed feet. Otterhounds should not be penalized for being shown in working condition (lean, well muscled, with a naturally stripped coat). Any departure from the following points should be considered a fault; its seriousness should be regarded in exact proportion to its degree.\
Otterhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Otterhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Otterhound|Exercise|Somewhat Active; These playful, athletic, all-weather hounds enjoy their exercise\'97swimming a specialty.\
Otterhound|History|1909 - The Otterhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Kromfohrlander|Fun Fact|The Kromfohrlander has been assigned the Non-Sporting Group designation.\
American Leopard Hound|Health|American Leopard Hounds are generally a healthy breed.\
American Leopard Hound|Fun Fact|Other names for the breed including American Leopard, American Leopard Cur and Leopard Cur.\
American Leopard Hound|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
American Leopard Hound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Leopard Hounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Leopard Hound|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
American Leopard Hound|History|2012 - The American Leopard Hound was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Clumber Spaniel|Body|The Clumber should have a longneckwith some slackness of throat or presence of dewlap not to be faulted. The neck is strong and muscular, fitting into a well laid back shoulder. The back is straight, firm, long and level. The brisket is deep and the ribs well sprung. The chest is deep and wide. The loin arches slightly. Thetailis well feathered and set on just below the line of back; it's trimming minimal, serving to tidy the feathering to allow for a natural appearance and outline. The tail is normally carried level with the topline or slightly elevated, never down between the rear legs. The tail may be docked or left natural, both being of equal value. If docked, the tail's length should be in keeping with the overall proportion of the adult dog. If natural, the tailbone should extend to the point of hock, but should not extend to the ground.\
Clumber Spaniel|Forequarters|The Clumber shoulder is well laid back. The upper arm is of sufficient length to place the elbow under the highest point of the shoulder. The forelegs are short, straight and heavy in bone, with elbows held close to the body. Pasterns are strong and only slightly sloped. The front feet are large, compact and have thick pads that act as shock absorbers. Removal of dewclaws is optional.\
Clumber Spaniel|Head|Theheadis massive with a marked stop and heavy brow. The topskullis flat with a pronounced occiput. A slight furrow runs between the eyes and up through the center of the skull. Themuzzleis broad and deep to facilitate retrieving many species of game. The nose is large, square and colored shades of brown, which include beige, rose and cherry. The flews of the upper jaw are strongly developed and overlap the lower jaw to give a square look when viewed from the side. A scissorsbiteis preferred. Theeyesare dark amber in color, large, soft in expression, and deep set in either a diamond shaped rim or a rim with a "V" on the bottom and a curve on the top. Some haw may show but excessive haw is undesirable. Prominent or round shaped eyes are to be penalized. Excessive tearing or evidence of entropion or ectropion is to be penalized.Earsare broad on top with thick ear leather. The ears are triangular in shape with a rounded lower edge, set low and attached to the skull at approximately eye level.\
Clumber Spaniel|Coat|The body coat is dense, straight and flat. It is of good weather resistant texture, which is soft to the touch, not harsh. Ears are slightly feathered with straight hair. Feathering on the legs and belly is moderate. The Clumber has a good neck frill and on no condition should his throat be shaved. Evidence of shaving is to be penalized. The hair on the feet should be trimmed neatly to show their natural outline and for utility in the field. The rear legs may be trimmed up to the point of the hock. Tail feathering may be tidied. Trimming of whiskers is optional.\
Clumber Spaniel|Hindquarters|The thighs are heavily muscled and, when viewed from behind, the rear is round and broad. The stifle shows good functional angulation, and hock to heel is short and perpendicular to the ground. Lack of angulation is objectionable. The rear feet are not as large or as round as on the front feet but compact, with thick pads and are of substantial size.\
Clumber Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Clumber Spaniel is believed to have originated in France.\
Clumber Spaniel|Health|No breed is free from worry, even with careful breeding.\
Clumber Spaniel|Grooming|Clumbers do not require extensive grooming but should be brushed two to three times a week to prevent mats.\
Clumber Spaniel|General Appearance|The Clumber Spaniel is a long, low, substantial dog. His heavy brow, deep chest, straight forelegs, powerful hindquarters, massive bone and good feet all give him the power and endurance to move through dense underbrush in pursuit of game. His white coat enables him to be seen by the hunter as he works within gun range. His stature is dignified, his expression pensive, but at the same time he shows great enthusiasm for work and play.\
Clumber Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Clumbers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Clumber Spaniel|Exercise|Smart and eager-to-please Clumbers respond well to training.\
Clumber Spaniel|History|1884 - The Clumber Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Body|Neckshould be clean and muscular, without throatiness, of fair length, and gradually widening to the shoulders.Backshould be short, straight (i.e., level), and strong, with no appearance of slackness. Chest\'a0deep and not broad.\'a0Brisket\'a0should be deep, yet not exaggerated. The foreribs should be moderately arched, the back ribs deep and well sprung, and the dog should be well ribbed up.\'a0Loinshould be very powerful, muscular and very slightly arched.\'a0.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0should be long and sloping, well laid back, fine at the points, and clearly cut at the withers. The elbows should hang perpendicular to the body, working free of the sides. The forelegs viewed from any direction must be straight with bone strong right down to the feet, showing little or no appearance of ankle in front, and being short and straight in pastern. Both fore and hind legs should be carried straight forward in traveling.\'a0Feet\'a0should be round, compact, and not large; the soles hard and tough; the toes moderately arched, and turned neither in nor out.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Head|Eyesand\'a0rims\'a0should be dark in color, moderately small and rather deep set, full of fire, life and intelligence and as nearly possible circular in shape. Anything approaching a yellow eye is most objectionable.Earsshould be V-shaped and small, of moderate thickness, and dropping forward close to the cheek, not hanging by the side of the head like a Foxhound. The topline of the folded ear should be well above the level of the skull.Disqualifications-Ears prick, tulip or rose. Cheeks\'a0must not be full. Jaws, upper and lower, should be strong and muscular and of fair punishing strength, but not so as in any way to resemble the Greyhound or modern English Terrier. There should not be much falling away below the eyes. This part of the head should, however, be moderately chiseled out, so as not to go down in a straight slope like a wedge. Thenose, toward which the muzzle must gradually taper, should be black.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Coat|Should be smooth, flat, but hard, dense and abundant. The belly and underside of the thighs should not be bare.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Hindquarters|Should be strong and muscular, quite free from droop or crouch; the thighs long and powerful, stifles well curved and turned neither in nor out; hocks well bent and near the ground should be perfectly upright and parallel each with the other when viewed from behind, the dog standing well up on them like a Foxhound, and not straight in the stifle.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Fun Fact|The Smooth Fox Terrier was originally bred to go to ground; their innate sense to dig comes out unless taught otherwise.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Health|Smooth Fox Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Grooming|The Smooth Fox Terrier has a sleek, easy to maintain coat.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|General Appearance|The Terrier, like the Hound, must on no account be leggy, nor must he be too short in the leg. He should stand like a cleverly made hunter, covering a lot of ground, yet with a short back, as stated below. He will then attain the highest degree of propelling power, together with the greatest length of stride that is compatible with the length of his body. Weight is not a certain criterion of a Terrier's fitness for his work-general shape, size and contour are the main points; and if a dog can gallop and stay, and follow his fox up a drain, it matters little what his weight is to a pound or so.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Smooth Fox Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|Exercise|Its sturdiness and size combined with its friendly and playful nature make it an excellent companion for children.\
Smooth Fox Terrier|History|1885 - The Smooth Fox Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Basenji|Body|Neckof good length, well crested and slightly full at base of throat. Well set into shoulders.Topline-Back level.Body-Balanced with a short back, short coupled and ending in a definite waist. Ribs moderately sprung, deep to elbows and oval. Slight forechest in front of point of shoulder. Chest of medium width.Tailis set high on topline, bends acutely forward and lies well curled over to either side.\
Basenji|Forequarters|Shoulders moderately laid back. Shoulder blade and upper arm of approximately equal length. Elbows tucked firmly against brisket. Legs straight with clean fine bone, long forearm and well defined sinews. Pasterns of good length, strong and flexible. Feet-Small, oval and compact with thick pads and well arched toes. Dewclaws are usually removed.\
Basenji|Head|Theheadis proudly carried.Eyes-Dark hazel to dark brown, almond shaped, obliquely set and farseeing. Rims dark.Ears-Small, erect and slightly hooded, of fine texture and set well forward on top of head. The skull is flat, well chiseled and of medium width, tapering toward the eyes. The foreface tapers from eye to muzzle with a perceptible stop.Muzzleshorter than skull, neither coarse nor snipy, but with rounded cushions. Wrinkles appear upon the forehead when ears are erect, and are fine and profuse. Side wrinkles are desirable, but should never be exaggerated into dewlap. Wrinkles are most noticeable in puppies, and because of lack of shadowing, less noticeable in blacks, tricolors and brindles. Nose-Black greatly desired. Teeth-Evenly aligned with a scissorsbite.\
Basenji|Coat|Coat short and fine. Skin very pliant. Color-Chestnut red; pure black; tricolor (pure black and chestnut red); or brindle (black stripes on a background of chestnut red); all with white feet, chest and tail tip. White legs, blaze and collar optional. The amount of white should never predominate over primary color. Color and markings should be rich, clear and well-defined, with a distinct line of demarcation between the black and red of tricolors and the stripes of brindles.\
Basenji|Hindquarters|Medium width, strong and muscular, hocks well let down and turned neither in nor out, with long second thighs and moderately bent stifles. Feet-Same as in "Forequarters."\
Basenji|Fun Fact|The Basenji was developed in Africa for hunting.\
Basenji|Health|Basenjis are considered a natural breed and are relatively healthy.\
Basenji|Grooming|Keeping your Basenji in good condition is easy since grooming is minimal due to his short, fine coat.\
Basenji|General Appearance|The Basenji is a small, short haired hunting dog from Africa. It is short backed and lightly built, appearing high on the leg compared to its length. The wrinkled head is proudly carried on a well arched neck and the tail is set high and curled. Elegant and graceful, the whole demeanor is one of poise and inquiring alertness. The balanced structure and the smooth musculature enable it to move with ease and agility. The Basenji hunts by both sight and scent. Characteristics-The Basenji should not bark but is not mute. The wrinkled forehead, tightly curled tail and swift, effortless gait (resembling a racehorse trotting full out) are typical of the breed. Faults-Any departure from the following points must be considered a fault, and the seriousness with which the fault is regarded is to be in exact proportion to its degree.\
Basenji|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Basenjis is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Basenji|Exercise|Your Basenji will need plenty of exercise to enable him to develop properly and also to prevent boredom.\
Basenji|History|1943 - The Basenji was officially recognized by the AKC\
Chihuahua|Body|Neck, Topline, Body:Neck-Slightly arched, gracefully sloping into lean shoulders.Topline-Level.Body-Ribs rounded and well sprung (but not too much "barrel-shaped").Tail-Moderately long, carried sickle either up or out, or in a loop over the back with tip just touching the back. (Never tucked between legs.)\'a0Disqualifications\'a0-\'a0Docked tail, bobtail.\
Chihuahua|Forequarters|Forequarters:Shoulders\'a0- Lean, sloping into a slightly broadening support above straight forelegs that set well under, giving free movement at the elbows. Shoulders should be well up, giving balance and soundness, sloping into a level back (never down or low). This gives a well developed chest and strength of forequarters.\'a0Feet\'a0- A small, dainty foot with toes well split up but not spread, pads cushioned. (Neither the hare nor the cat foot.) Dewclaws may be removed.\'a0Pasterns\'a0- Strong.\
Chihuahua|Head|A well rounded "apple dome"skull, with or without molera.Expression-Saucy.Eyes-Full, round, but not protruding, balanced, set well apart-luminous dark or luminous ruby. Light eyes in blond or white-colored dogs permissible. Blue eyes or a difference in the color of the iris in the two eyes, or two different colors within one iris should be considered a serious fault.Ears-Large, erect type ears, held more upright when alert, but flaring to the sides at a 45 degree angle when in repose, giving breadth between the ears.\'a0Stop\'a0- Well defined. When viewed in profile, it forms a near 90 degree angle where muzzle joins skull.\
Chihuahua|Coat|In theSmooth Coats, the coat should be of soft texture, close and glossy. (Heavier coats with undercoats permissible.) Coat placed well over body with ruff on neck preferred, and more scanty on head and ears. Hair on tail preferred furry. InLong Coats, the coat should be of a soft texture, either flat or slightly wavy, with undercoat preferred.\'a0Ears\'a0- Fringed.\'a0Tail\'a0- Full and long (as a plume). Feathering on feet and legs, pants on hind legs and large ruff on the neck desired and preferred. (The Chihuahua should be groomed only to create a neat appearance.)\'a0 Disqualification\'a0-\'a0In Long Coats, too thin coat that resembles bareness.\
Chihuahua|Hindquarters|Muscular, with hocks well apart, neither out nor in, well let down, firm and sturdy.\'a0Angulation\'a0- Should equal that of forequarters. The feet are as in front. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Chihuahua|Fun Fact|The Chihuahua comes in two varieties: long and smooth coat.\
Chihuahua|Health|Ask your Chihuahua\'92s breeder and/or other toy breed owners to recommend a good vet.\
Chihuahua|Grooming|Occasional brushing of the Smooth Coat variety of Chihuahuas to promote healthy skin and hair is recommended.\
Chihuahua|General Appearance|A graceful, alert, swift-moving compact little dog with saucy expression, and with terrier-like qualities of temperament.\
Chihuahua|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Chihuahuas is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chihuahua|Exercise|Though Chihuahuas like to run and play, they are mostly an indoor pet, and do well in apartments.\
Chihuahua|History|1904 - The Chihuahua was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Slovensky Kopov|Health|\
Slovensky Kopov|Fun Fact|The Slovensky Kopov has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Slovensky Kopov|Grooming|\
Slovensky Kopov|Nutrition & Feeding|\
Slovensky Kopov|Exercise|\
Slovensky Kopov|History|2015 - The Slovensky Kopov has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since October 2015.\
English Toy Spaniel|Forequarters|Shoulders well laid back; legs well boned and strong, dropping straight down from the elbow; strong in pastern. Feet, front and rear, are neat and compact; fused toes are often seen and are acceptable.\
English Toy Spaniel|Head|Large in comparison to size, with a plush, chubby look, albeit with a degree of refinement which prevents it from being coarse.Expression-Soft and appealing, indicating an intelligent nature.Eyes-Large and very dark brown or black, set squarely on line with the nose, with little or no white showing. The eye rims should be black.Ears-Very long and set low and close to the head, fringed with heavy feathering.Skull-High and well domed; from the side, curves as far out over the eyes as possible.Stop - Deep and well-defined.\
English Toy Spaniel|Coat|Profusely coated, heavy fringing on the ears, body, and on the chest, and with flowing feathering on both the front and hind legs, and feathering on the feet. The coat is straight or only slightly wavy, with a silken, glossy texture. Although the Blenheim and the Ruby rarely gain the length of coat and ears of the Prince Charles and King Charles, good coats and long ear fringes are a desired and prized attribute. Over-trimming of the body, feet or tail fringings should be penalized.\
English Toy Spaniel|Hindquarters|Rear legs are well muscled and nicely angulated to indicate strength, and parallel of hock.\
English Toy Spaniel|Fun Fact|English Toy Spaniels still possess the natural hunting instinct.\
English Toy Spaniel|Health|English Toy Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
English Toy Spaniel|Grooming|All varieties of the English Toy Spaniel are easy-to-groom and require regular twice-weekly combing and brushing.\
English Toy Spaniel|General Appearance|The English Toy Spaniel is a compact, cobby and essentially square toy dog possessed of a short-nosed, domed head, a merry and affectionate demeanor and a silky, flowing coat. His compact, sturdy body and charming temperament, together with his rounded head, lustrous dark eye, and well cushioned face, proclaim him a dog of distinction and character. The important characteristics of the breed are exemplified by the head.\
English Toy Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for English Toy Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
English Toy Spaniel|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Cavorting and curious at play; well-behaved and dignified at home.\
English Toy Spaniel|History|1886 - The English Toy Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Canaan Dog|Body|Neck- well arched. Balance to body and head and free from throatiness.Topline- Level with slight arch over the loins.Body- Strong, displaying athletic agility and trimness. Chest -Moderately broad and deep, extending to the elbows, with well-sprung ribs. Loin - Well-tucked up. Short, muscled flanks.\
Canaan Dog|Forequarters|Shoulders moderately angulated. Legs straight. Pasterns flexible with very slight slope when viewed from the side. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet - Catlike, pads hard, pigmentation harmonizing with nose and eye rims. Nails strong, hard, pigmentation harmonizing with either nose and eye rims or coat.\
Canaan Dog|Head|Elongated, the length exceeding the breadth and depth considerably. Wedge-shaped, when viewed from above. Slightly arched when viewed from the side, tapering to stop. The region of the forehead is of medium width, but appearing broader through ears set low to complete an alert expression, with a slight furrow between the eyes.Muzzle-Tapering to complete the wedge shape of the head. Length equal to or slightly longer than the length of the skull from the occiput to stop. Whisker trimming optional. Nose - Darkly pigmented or varying shades of liver, harmonizing with coat color. Lips - Tight with good pigmentation.Bite- Scissors.\
Canaan Dog|Coat|Double coat. Outer coat-straight, harsh, flat-lying. Outer coat of medium length on body, shorter on front part of the legs and head; longer on ruff, tail, top of withers and back of thigh. Ruff more pronounced on males.\'a0 Thick brush tail tapering to a pointed tip.\'a0 Undercoat - soft and short with density varying with climate.\'a0 Excessively long outer coat that masks the clean outline of the dog is undesirable as is any trimming that alters the natural appearance of the dog.\
Canaan Dog|Hindquarters|Moderately angulated. In balance with forequarters. Straight when viewed from the rear. Thigh musculature well-developed, moderately broad. Hocks well-let-down. Dewclaws must be removed. Feet and nails as in fore-quarters.\
Canaan Dog|Fun Fact|The Canaan Dog is the national breed of Israel.\
Canaan Dog|Health|Canaan Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Canaan Dog|Grooming|This short coat requires minimal maintenance.\
Canaan Dog|General Appearance|The Canaan Dog is a pariah dog type that is naturally alert, inquisitive and watchful.\'a0 He is mistrustful of strangers and unfamiliar environments, yet loyal and loving with his family.\'a0 A square dog of medium size, moderate and balanced without extremes, showing a clean outline.\'a0 The moderately angulated Canaan Dog moves with athletic agility and grace in an efficient, ground-covering endurance trot.\'a0 He has a wedge-shaped head with low-set erect ears, a high set brush tail that curls over the back when confident, and a straight, harsh, flat-lying double coat.\'a0 There is a marked distinction between the sexes.\
Canaan Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Canaan Dogs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Canaan Dog|Exercise|This breed will need regular exercise, but because they are intelligent, they are also easily trained.\
Canaan Dog|History|1997 - The Canaan Dog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Drever|Fun Fact|The Drever has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Beauceron|Body|Neck: The neck is muscular, of good length, united harmoniously with the shoulders, enabling the head to be carried proudly while standing in an alert posture.Topline-The back is straight and strong. The withers are well defined. The loin is broad, short and muscular. The croup is well muscled and slightly sloped in the direction of the attachment of the tail.Body-The length of the body from the point of the shoulder to the point of the buttock is slightly more than the height of the dog at the withers. Chest-The chest is wide, deep, long, and descends to the point of the elbow. The girth of the chest is greater than the height at the withers by more than 20 percent. Ribs-The ribcage extends well back with long, flexible, and moderately curved ribs. The abdomen is moderately drawn up but still presents good volume.\
Beauceron|Forequarters|The construction of the forequarters is of the utmost importance, determining the dog's ability to work and his resistance to fatigue. The legs are vertical when viewed from the front or in profile. Shoulder - The shoulders are moderately long, muscular but not loaded, with good layback. Forearm - The forearms are muscular. Feet - The feet are large, round, and compact with black nails. The pads are firm yet supple.\
Beauceron|Head|Theheadis long, well chiseled with harmonious lines without weakness. The head must be in proportion with the body, measured from the tip of the nose to the occiput it is about 40 percent of the height at the withers. The height and width of the head are each slightly less than half its total length. The skull and muzzle are of equal length.Expression-The gaze is frank, alert, and confident.Eyes -The eyes are horizontal and slightly oval in shape. The eyes must be dark brown, never lighter than dark hazel. For the Harlequin, walleye is acceptable.\
Beauceron|Coat|Outer coat is 1\'bc to 1\'bd inches, coarse, dense and lying close to the body. It is short and smooth on the head, ears and lower legs. The hair is somewhat longer around the neck. The tail and back of thighs are lightly fringed. The undercoat is short, fine, dense and downy, mouse gray in color and does not show through the outer coat. The Beauceron is exhibited in the natural condition with no trimming. Disqualification - Shaggy coat.\
Beauceron|Hindquarters|The angulation of the hindquarters is balanced with the forequarters. The hindquarters are powerful, providing flexible, almost tireless movement. They are vertical when viewed from profile and from behind. Legs - The thighs are wide and muscled. Hock joint is substantial, not too close to the ground, the point situated roughly at \'bc the height at the withers, forming a well open angle with the second thigh. Metatarsals are upright, slightly further back than the point of the buttock. When viewed from behind, metatarsals are perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other. Feet - The feet are large, round, compact, and the rear toes turn out very slightly. Dewclaws - Double dewclaws form well separated "thumbs" with nails, placed rather close to the foot. Disqualification - Anything less than double dewclaws on each rear leg.\
Beauceron|Fun Fact|The Beauceron is a dog of the lupoid (wolf) type.\
Beauceron|Health|Beaucerons are generally a healthy and hardy breed.\
Beauceron|Grooming|The breed's short coat does not require extensive grooming.\
Beauceron|General Appearance|The ideal Beauceron is a well balanced, solid dog of good height and well muscled without heaviness or coarseness. The whole conformation gives the impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness, exhibiting the strength, endurance and agility required of the herding dog. He is alert and energetic with a noble carriage. A formidable dog with a frank and unwavering expression, he always demands respect wherever he goes. Male dogs are characteristically larger throughout with a larger frame and heavier bone than bitches. Bitches are distinctly feminine, but without weakness in substance or structure. The Beauceron should be discerning and confident. He is a dog with spirit and initiative, wise and fearless with no trace of timidity. Intelligent, easily trained, faithful, gentle and obedient.\
Beauceron|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Beaucerons is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Beauceron|Exercise|Very Active; Powerful, athletic, and very clever, Beaucerons needs lot of physical and mental challenges.\
Beauceron|History|2007 - The Beauceron was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Brussels Griffon|Body|Neckmedium length, gracefully arched.Topline-Back level and short.Body-A thickset, short body. Brisket should be broad and deep, ribs well sprung. Short-coupled.Tail-set and held high, docked to about one-third.\
Brussels Griffon|Forequarters|Forelegs medium length, straight in bone, well muscled, set moderately wide apart and straight from the point of the shoulders as viewed from the front. Pasterns short and strong. Feet round, small, and compact, turned neither in nor out. Toes well arched. Black pads and toenails preferred.\
Brussels Griffon|Head|A very important feature. An almost humanexpression.Eyesset well apart, very large, black, prominent, and well open. The eyelashes long and black. Eyelids edged with black.Earssmall and set rather high on the head. May be shown cropped or natural. If natural they are carried semi-erect.Skulllarge and round, with a domed forehead. The stop deep.\'a0Nose\'a0very black, extremely short, its tip being set back deeply between the eyes so as to form a lay-back. The nostrils large.\'a0Disqualifications\'a0- Dudley or butterfly nose.\'a0Lips\'a0edged with black, not pendulous but well brought together, giving a clean finish to the mouth.\'a0Jaws\'a0must be undershot. The incisors of the lower jaw should protrude over the upper incisors. The lower jaw is prominent, rather broad with an upward sweep. Neither teeth nor tongue should show when the mouth is closed.\
Brussels Griffon|Coat|Therough coatis wiry and dense, the harder and more wiry the better. On no account should the dog look or feel woolly, and there should be no silky hair anywhere. The coat should not be so long as to give a shaggy appearance, but should be distinctly different all over from the smooth coat. The head should be covered with wiry hair, slightly longer around the eyes, nose, cheeks, and chin, thus forming a fringe. The rough coat is hand-stripped and should never appear unkempt. Body coat of sufficient length to determine texture. The coat may be tidied for neatness of appearance, but coats prepared with scissors and/or clippers should be severely penalized.Thesmooth coatis straight, short, tight and glossy, with no trace of wiry hair.\
Brussels Griffon|Hindquarters|Hind legs set true, thighs strong and well muscled, stifles bent, hocks well let down, turning neither in nor out.\
Brussels Griffon|Fun Fact|Smooth-coated Brussels Griffons are termed "Brabancons".\
Brussels Griffon|Health|Responsibly bred, well-socialized Brussels Griffons are usually bright, happy, and healthy.\
Brussels Griffon|Grooming|The breed can have either a rough or smooth coat.\
Brussels Griffon|General Appearance|A toy dog, intelligent, alert, sturdy, with a thickset, short body, a smart carriage and set-up, attracting attention by an almost human expression. There are two distinct types of coat: rough or smooth. Except for coat, there is no difference between the two.\
Brussels Griffon|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Brussels Griffons is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Brussels Griffon|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Griffs are spunky and love to play and to share long, daily walks with their owners.\
Brussels Griffon|History|1910 - The Brussels Griffon was officially recognized by the AKC\
Irish Water Spaniel|Body|The neck is long, arching, strong and muscular and is smoothly set into cleanly sloping shoulders.Topline:The rear is equal to or slightly higher than the front never descending or showing sag or roach. Back:Strong, broad and level.Body:Medium length. The ribs are carried well back and so well sprung behind the shoulders as togive a barrel shape. The chest is deep with a brisket extending to the elbows. The loin is short, wide, muscular, and deep so it does not give a tucked-up appearance.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Forequarters|The entire front gives the impression of strength without heaviness. The forechest should be moderate. Shoulders are sloping and moderately laid back, clean and powerful. The upper arms are approximately thelength of the shoulder blades with clean elbows set close to the body.Forelegs are well boned,muscular and straight, set well under the withers\
Irish Water Spaniel|Head|Theheadis cleanly chiseled. Hair on the face is short and smooth except for a beard of long, loose curls growing at the back of thelower jaw which may continue up the side of the face as sideburns.Topknot:A characteristic of the breed, the topknot consists of long, loose curls covering the skull and falling down over the top of the ears and occiput. The contrast between the smooth face and the topknot isevident in a well-defined peak between the eyes. The topknot, a breed characteristic, should not be trimmed in an exaggerated or excessive manner.Eyes:Set almost flush, the eyes are comparatively small and almond shaped with tight eyelids. The color is a warm tone of medium to dark brown, dark amber but never yellow. The expression is keenly alert, intelligent,direct and quizzical.Ears:Long, lobular, set low, hanging close to the head and abundantly covered with long loose curls of hair.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Coat|Proper coat is of vital importance to protect the dog while working. The coat on the face is short and smooth framed by the distinctive topknot and ears of long, loose curls. The coat on the throat is smooth forming a V-shaped patch from the back of the lower jaw behind the beard to the breastbone. The remainder of the neck, body and base of the tail are covered with dense, tight, crisp curls. The remainder of the coat on the tail is short and smooth coated. Forelegs are covered down to the feet with curls or waves all around. The hind legs are also abundantly covered with curls or waves except that the hair is short and smooth on the front of the legs below the hocks. Feet are well clothed with hair. Dogs may be shown in natural coat or trimmed. However, no dog should be groomed or trimmed so excessively as to obscure the curl or texture of the coat.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Hindquarters|Sound hindquarters are of great importance to provide drive and power while swimming. They are as high as or slightly higher than the shoulders with powerful, muscular, well-developed thighs. The hips are wide. The croup is rounded and full with the tail set on low enough to give a roundedappearance.The stifles are moderately bent. Hocks are set low and moderately bent. Balance of front and rear angulation is important. Feet:Large, round, somewhat spreading. Well clothed with hair. Pads are thick.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Fun Fact|The coat of the Irish Water Spaniel is naturally water-repellant.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Health|Irish Water Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Grooming|Suitable for allergy sufferers, their hypoallergenic coats require brushing every few weeks & trimming every two months.\
Irish Water Spaniel|General Appearance|That of a smart, upstanding, strongly built moderate gundog bred for all types of shooting, especially for water-fowling. Great intelligence is combined with rugged endurance and a bold, dashing eagerness of temperament. Distinguishing characteristicsare a topknot of long, loose curls and a body covered with a dense, crisply curled liver colored coat contrasted by a smooth face and a smooth "rat" tail.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Irish Water Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Irish Water Spaniel|Exercise|It\'92s important to provide IWS with early and continued socialization.\
Irish Water Spaniel|History|1884 - The Irish Water Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Giant Schnauzer|Body|Compact, substantial, short-coupled, and strong, with great power and agility. The height at the highest point of the withers equals the body length from breastbone to point of rump. The loin section is well developed, as short as possible for compact build.\
Giant Schnauzer|Forequarters|The forequarters have flat, somewhat sloping shoulders and high withers. Forelegs are straight and vertical when viewed from all sides with strong pasterns and good bone. They are separated by a fairly deep brisket which precludes a pinched front. The elbows are set close to the body and point directly backwards.\'a0Chest - Medium in width, ribs well sprung but with no tendency toward a barrel chest; oval in cross section: deep through the brisket.\
Giant Schnauzer|Head|Strong, rectangular in appearance, and elongated; narrowing slightly from the ears to the eyes, and again from the eyes to the tip of the nose. The total length of theheadis about one-half the length of the back (withers to set-on of tail). The head matches the sex and substance of the dog. The top line of the muzzle is parallel to the top line of the skull; there is a slight stop which is accentuated by the eyebrows.\
Giant Schnauzer|Coat|Hard, wiry, very dense; composed of a soft undercoat and a harsh outer coat which, when seen against the grain, stands slightly up off the back, lying neither smooth nor flat. Coarse hair on top of head; harsh beard and eyebrows, the Schnauzer hallmark.\
Giant Schnauzer|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are strongly muscled, in balance with the forequarters; upper thighs are slanting and well bent at the stifles, with the second thighs (tibiae) approximately parallel to an extension of the upper neckline. The legs from the hock joint to the feet are short, perpendicular to the ground while the dog is standing naturally, and from the rear parallel to each other. The hindquarters do not appear over-built or higher than the shoulders. Croup full and slightly rounded.\'a0Feet-Well-arched, compact and catlike, turning neither in nor out, with thick tough pads and dark nails.\'a0Dewclaws - Dewclaws, if any, on hind legs should be removed; on the forelegs, may be removed.\
Giant Schnauzer|Fun Fact|The German name of the Giant Schnauzer is Riesenschnauzer.\
Giant Schnauzer|Health|Giant Schnauzers are generally a healthy breed.\
Giant Schnauzer|Grooming|Giant Schnauzers have actual hair that continues to grow and must be clipped or stripped to maintain a healthy coat.\
Giant Schnauzer|General Appearance|The Giant Schnauzer should resemble, as nearly as possible, in general appearance, a larger and more powerful version of the Standard Schnauzer, on the whole a bold and valiant figure of a dog. Robust, strongly built, nearly square in proportion of body length to height at withers, active, sturdy, and well muscled. Temperament which combines spirit and alertness with intelligence and reliability. Composed, watchful, courageous, easily trained, deeply loyal to family, playful, amiable in repose, and a commanding figure when aroused. The sound, reliable temperament, rugged build, and dense weather-resistant wiry coat make for one of the most useful, powerful, and enduring working breeds.\
Giant Schnauzer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Giant Schnauzer is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Giant Schnauzer|Exercise|Very Active; More energetic and up-tempo than most big breeds, Giants need lots of exercise.\
Giant Schnauzer|History|1930 - The Giant Schnauzer was officially recognized by the AKC\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Body|Toplinestraight, with well developed back muscles often forming all along the back a muscular bi-convexity which extends to the lumbar region.\'a0Lumbar region - Strong and well muscled. Its length reaches approximately one-fifth of the height at the withers. Chest - Seen from the front, the chest must have a good amplitude, but without excess; comes down almost to the elbow. The ribs must be lightly sprung, never flat. The girth of the chest, measured behind the elbows, must exceed by about 18 percent the height at the withers.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Forequarters|Well united with the body. Seen from the front, they are perfectly vertical and the elbows are not turned out. The angle at the shoulders joint varies between 100 and 120 degrees. Seen in profile, the angle formed by the pastern and the vertical will be from 15 to 20 degrees. Forefeet - They are semi-long and look like hare-feet.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Head|Cheeks - Normally developed.Eyes- Alert and intelligent expression. The eyes must be of average dimensions, slightly almond shaped, neither deep-set nor prominent, normally and regularly placed, i.e. neither too close together nor too wide apart. The color can vary from black, going through all shades of brown up to yellow, in harmony with the skin color. In any case, both eyes must be of the same color.Ears- The ears must be pricked when the dog is attentive, whereas at rest, they are laid towards the back. The ears are of medium length; broad at the base, tapering progressively towards their tip, ending almost pointed. The ear set starts on the upper part of the skull to end laterally and obliquely.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Coat|The hairless examples must have exposed skin in the place of the coat (hair). Short hair on the head and vestiges of hair on the lower tail and feet are acceptable. A few hairs may appear on the face and body. Shaving or any other form of hair removal is not permitted. In the coated variety the coat may be short or medium length with feathering present at the neck, ears and body.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Hindquarters|The muscles are rounded and elastic. The curve of the buttocks is well marked. The coxal-femoral angle varies between 120 and 130 degrees, and the femoral-tibial angle must be of 140 degrees. Seen from behind, the hindquarters must be vertical.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Fun Fact|Pre-Inca pottery portrays the Peruvian Inca Orchid in great detail.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Health|Peruvian Inca Orchids are generally a healthy breed.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Grooming|The breed's hairless coat requires intensive skin care during its first year.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|General Appearance|The Peruvian Inca Orchid/ Peruvian Hairless Dog is a sight hound. Going by his general conformation, it is an elegant and slim dog, whose aspect expresses speed, strength and harmony without ever appearing coarse. The fundamental characteristic of the breed is the absence of hair all over the body in the hairless variety. The minority are the coated examples which are an important part of this breeds genetic makeup. Another particular feature is that the dentition is nearly always incomplete hairless examples.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Peruvian Inca Orchids is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|Exercise|The Peruvian Inca Orchid is loving and loyal to his family, but reserved with strangers.\
Peruvian Inca Orchid|History|1996 - The Peruvian Inca Orchid was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Schipperke|Body|Neck- The neck is of moderate length, slightly arched and in balance with the rest of the dog to give the correct silhouette.Topline- The topline is level or sloping slightly from the withers to the croup. The stand-out ruff adds to the slope, making the dog seem slightly higher at the shoulders than at the rump.Body- The chest is broad and deep, and reaches to the elbows. The well sprung ribs (modified oval) are wide behind the shoulders and taper to the sternum. The forechest extends in front of the shoulders between the front legs. The loin is short, muscular and moderately drawn up. The croup is broad and well-rounded with thetaildocked. No tail is visually discernible.\
Schipperke|Forequarters|Forequarters:The shoulders are well laid back, with the legs extending straight down from the body when viewed from the front. From the side, legs are placed well under the body. Pasterns are short, thick and strong, but still flexible, showing a slight angle when viewed from the side. Dewclaws are generally removed. Feet are small, round and tight. Nails are short, strong and black.\
Schipperke|Head|Expression- The expression is questioning, mischievous, impudent and alert, but never mean or wild. The well proportioned head, accompanied by the correct eyes and ears, will give the dog proper Schipperke expression.EyesThe ideal eyes are small, oval rather than round, dark brown, and placed forward on the head.Ears- The ears are small, triangular, placed high on the head, and, when at attention, very erect. A drop ear or ears is a disqualification. Nose - The nose is small and black.\
Schipperke|Coat|Coat:Pattern- The adult coat is highly characteristic and must include several distinct lengths growing naturally in a specific pattern. The coat is short on the face, ears, front of the forelegs and on the hocks; it is medium length on the body, and longer in the ruff, cape, jabot and culottes. The ruff begins in back of the ears and extends completely around the neck; the cape forms an additional distinct layer extending beyond the ruff; the jabot extends across the chest and down between the front legs. The hair down the middle of the back, starting just behind the cape and continuing over the rump, lies flat. It is slightly shorter than the cape but longer than the hair on the sides of the body and sides of the legs. The coat on the rear of the thighs forms culottes, which should be as long as the ruff. Lack of differentiation in coat lengths should be heavily penalized, as it is an essential breed characteristic.\
Schipperke|Hindquarters|Hindquarters:The hindquarters appear slightly lighter than the forequarters, but are well muscled, and in balance with the front. The hocks are well let down and the stifles are well bent. Extreme angulation is to be penalized. From the rear, the legs extend straight down from the hip through the hock to the feet. Dewclaws must be removed.\
Schipperke|Fun Fact|The Schipperke originated in the Flemish provinces of Belgium and is sometimes erroneously described as a Dutch dog, due perhaps to a misconception regarding the location of Flanders.\
Schipperke|Health|Schipperkes are generally a healthy breed.\
Schipperke|Grooming|The breed's coat needs only weekly brushing, although they do shed several times a year.\
Schipperke|General Appearance|The Schipperke is an agile, active watchdog and hunter of vermin. In appearance he is a small, thickset, cobby, black, tailless dog, with a fox-like face. The dog is square in profile and possesses a distinctive coat, which includes a stand-out ruff, cape and culottes. All of these create a unique silhouette, appearing to slope from shoulders to croup. Males are decidedly masculine without coarseness. Bitches are decidedly feminine without over-refinement. Any deviation from the ideal described in the standard should be penalized to the extent of the deviation. Faults common to all breeds are as undesirable in the Schipperke as in any other breed, even though such faults may not be specifically mentioned in the standard.\
Schipperke|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Schipperkes is very important from puppyhood to their senior years\
Schipperke|Exercise|The Schipperke is extremely active and loves to be involved in what is going on around him.\
Schipperke|History|1904 - First recognized by the AKC.\
Lowchen|Body|The\'a0body\'a0is slightly off-square when properly balanced. The loin is short and strong. The ribs are well sprung. The brisket is moderate in width and extends approximately to the elbows. The underline has a slight tuck-up at the loin.\
Lowchen|Forequarters|The shoulders are strong and well laid back with smooth musculature. The upper arm is of equal length to the shoulder blade and the two meet in a near 90 degree angle. The elbows are held close to the body. \'a0Forearms are of good length and the distance from the withers to the elbow is slightly less than the distance from the elbow to the ground. From the front the legs are perfectly parallel from the elbows to the feet. \'a0The bone is more round than oval and of medium size with only a slight decrease in size at the pasterns. The pasterns are short, parallel from the front, and very slightly bent when viewed from the side. The forefeet point straight ahead and are tight and well arched with deep pads, and the two center toes are slightly in advance of the two outer toes. \'a0Dewclaws may be removed. The nails are relatively short.\
Lowchen|Head|The\'a0head\'a0is a hallmark breed characteristic.\'a0The\'a0backskull\'a0is broad and relatively flatfrom ear to ear.The stop ismoderately well defined.The length from nose to base of stop is two-thirds of the length from base of stop to occiput. The\'a0muzzle\'a0is well filled and relatively broad with moderate depth of underjaw resulting in a slightly rounded finish to the muzzle.\
Lowchen|Coat|The L\'f6wchen must be shown in the traditional Lion Clip. The unclipped areas of the coat are long, rather dense and moderately soft in texture. The unique L\'f6wchen coat consists of hairs of varying diameters with a more noticeable collection of denser hair around the neck and withers. The coat may fall to either side but must never be artificially parted.It has a slightly to moderately wavy appearance.\
Lowchen|Hindquarters|The pelvic bone projects beyond the set of the tail and is at an approximate 30 degree angle from a perfectly horizontal line. \'a0The upper and lower thighs are well muscled and of approximately equal length with medium bone. The stifles are well bent. \'a0The hocks are well let down and perpendicular to the ground from any angle.The hindfeet point straight ahead, are slightly smaller than the forefeet, and are well arched with deep pads.\
Lowchen|Fun Fact|L\'f6wchen means "little lion."\
Lowchen|Health|L\'f6wchen are generally a healthy breed.\
Lowchen|Grooming|Their single coat needs a thorough brushing at least weekly to prevent matting.\
Lowchen|General Appearance|A small, bright, and lively dog that originated as a companion breed in pre-Renaissance Europe where ladies of the court groomed it in the likeness of a little lion. Breed characteristics are a compact, balanced body; a relatively short, broad topskull and muzzle; and a proud, lively gait that accentuates the lion cut with a long flowing mane. These quintessential features, combined with an outgoing and positive attitude, result in a dog of great style.\
Lowchen|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the L\'f6wchen is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Lowchen|Exercise|Life with a little lion is fun!\
Lowchen|History|1996 - The L\'f6wchen was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Biewer Terrier|Health|Biewer Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Biewer Terrier|Fun Fact|The Biewer Terrier has been assigned the Toy Group designation.\
Biewer Terrier|Grooming|The breed's long-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Biewer Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Biewer Terrier is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Biewer Terrier|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Biewer Terrier|History|2014 - The Biewer Terrier was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Norwegian Lundehund|Body|Level back, short loin and slightly sloping croup, slight tuck up. Ribs are carried well back, well-sprung but not barrel-shaped.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Head|Theheadis wedge-shaped, of medium width and clean.Eyes-almond-shaped, yellow-brown to brown with a brown ring around the pupil. Light eyes are preferred. Eye rims are dark and complete.Ears-medium-size, triangular, broad at the base, carried erect and very mobile. The ear leather can be folded and turned up, backward or at right angles so that the ear openings are clamped shut.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Coat|Double coat with a harsh outer coat and a dense, soft undercoat. The coat is short on the head and front of the legs, longer and thicker around the neck and back of thighs. It is dense on the tail with little feathering. The male typically has a thicker ruff around the neck. The Lundehund is presented naturally with no trimming.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Hindquarters|Moderate angulation in balance with the forequarters. Strong muscular upper and lower thighs. Feet: Oval, slightly outward turned with a minimum of six toes, of which four support the dog's weight. There are seven pads with the center pad elongated. When viewed from behind, the rear legs are close but parallel.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Fun Fact|The Norwegian Lundehund is also known as the Norwegian Puffin Dog.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Health|Norwegian Lundehund are generally a healthy breed.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming.\
Norwegian Lundehund|General Appearance|The Norwegian Lundehund is a small rectangular and agile Spitz breed with unique characteristics not found in any other breed. Originating on remote islands of arctic Norway, the dog was used to wrestle and retrieve live puffin birds from the crevices of steep vertical cliffs. To enable the dog to climb, descend, and brake on these cliffs, unique structural characteristics have evolved and must be present as they define this breed: a minimum of six toes on each foot and elongated rear foot pads; an elastic neck that allows the head to bend backward to touch the spine, letting the dog turn around in narrow puffin bird caves; and shoulders flexible enough to allow the front legs to extend flat to the side in order to hug the cliffs. This shoulder structure produces a peculiar rotary movement. Finally, the ears close and fold forward or backward to protect from debris. The temperament is alert but not expected to be outgoing toward strangers.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norwegian Lundehund is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Norwegian Lundehund|Exercise|Very Active; Agile, energetic, and dogdom's champion climber\'97the perfect hiker\'92s companion.\
Norwegian Lundehund|History|2011 - The Norwegian Lundehund was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Cesky Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulder - Muscular, well laid back and powerful. Elbows - Should fit closely to the sides and be neither loose or tight. Forelegs - Short, straight, well boned and parallel. Dewclaws may be present. Forefeet - Large, well-arched toes with strong nails and well-developed pads.\
Cesky Terrier|Head|Head is about 7 to 8 inches long, 3 to 4 inches wide and is shaped like a long, blunt wedge. The plane of the forehead forms a slight but definite stop with the bridge of the nose. The breadth between the ears is slightly larger for a dog than a bitch. The head should join the neck smoothly.Eyes- Almond shaped of medium size. Slightly deep set with a friendly expression. The color is brown or dark brown.Ears- Medium size, dropping in such a way to well cover the orifice. Ears are set rather high with forward edge lying close to the cheek. Shaped like a triangle, with the shorter side of the triangle at the fold of the ear.\
Cesky Terrier|Coat|Long, fine but slight texture. Furnishings slightly wavy with a silky gloss. Shorter hair can have more curl. Not overdone with too much furnishings.\
Cesky Terrier|Hindquarters|Hind legs - Strong, well-muscled and longer than the forelegs. Thigh - Longer in proportion to the lower leg with stifle well bent. Hock Joint - Strong and well developed. Well let down and parallel to each other. Lower leg is straight from hock to heel. Hind feet - As front but smaller.\
Cesky Terrier|Fun Fact|The breed is sometimes called the Bohemian Terrier.\
Cesky Terrier|Health|Cesky Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Cesky Terrier|Grooming|The Cesky has a soft, almost silky coat - easily cared for and cleaned.\
Cesky Terrier|General Appearance|The Cesky Terrier was developed to be a well-muscled, short legged and well-pigmented hunting terrier that could be worked in packs. The Cesky Terrier has natural drop ears and a natural tail. The Cesky is longer than it is tall and has a topline that rises slightly higher over the loin and rump. It sports a soft, long, silky coat in shades of gray from charcoal to platinum. The correct coat is clipped to emphasize a slim impression. The hallmarks of the breed should be unique unto itself with a lean body and graceful movement.\
Cesky Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cesky Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Cesky Terrier|Exercise|Chesky Terrier's are extremely intelligent which makes them great partners.\
Cesky Terrier|History|2011 - The Cesky Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Cane Corso|Forequarters|Strong and muscular, well-proportioned to the size of the dog. Straight when viewed from the front or side; height of the limb at the elbow is equal to 50 percent of the height at the withers. Shoulders- Muscular, laid back. Upper arms - Strongly muscled, with good bone, powerful. Elbows - Held parallel to the ribcage, turning neither in nor out. Forelegs - Straight and with good bone, well muscled. Pasterns - Almost straight, strong but flexible. Feet - Round with well-arched toes (catlike). Lean, hard, dark pads and nails, except in the case of white toes. Front dewclaws - Can remain or be removed, if left intact should only be a single dewclaw on each leg.\
Cane Corso|Head|Molossus, large, its total length reaches approximately one third of the height at the withers. Planes of the skull and muzzle are slightly convergent; they are not parallel. The circumference of theheadmeasured at the cheekbones is more than twice the total length of the head; skin is firm and smooth.Skull- Viewed from the front, skull is wide and slightly curved; width is equal to the length. From the side, a prominent arch begins above the eyes and then flattens backward toward the occiput. Viewed from the top, it has a square appearance due to the zygomatic arches and powerful muscles swathing it. Stop - Well-defined due to developed and bulging frontal sinuses and prominent arch above the eyes.\
Cane Corso|Coat|The coat is short, stiff, shiny, adherent and dense with a light undercoat that becomes thicker in cold weather.\
Cane Corso|Hindquarters|As a whole, they are powerful and strong, in harmony with the forequarters. Straight when viewed from the rear or front. Thighs - Long, wide, angulated and well-muscled. Stifle - Should be moderately angulated, strong. Legs - Strong bone and muscle structure. Hocks - Wide set, thick and clean, let down and parallel when viewed from behind. Rear pastern - straight and parallel. Rear dewclaws - Any rear dewclaws are removed. Hind feet - Slightly more oval-shaped and less-arched toes.\
Cane Corso|Fun Fact|The Cane Corso's country of origin is Italy.\
Cane Corso|Health|The Cane Corso is generally a healthy breed.\
Cane Corso|Grooming|Since Cane Corsi have short coats, they are light shedders.\
Cane Corso|General Appearance|Ancient Italian breed medium-large size Molossus Dog. Sturdy, with a strong skeleton. Muscular and athletic, it moves with considerable ease and elegance. It has always been a property watchdog and hunter of difficult game such as the wild boar.\
Cane Corso|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cane Corsi is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Cane Corso|Exercise|Corsi are smart, trainable, eager to please, versatile, and docile and intensely loyal with their humans.\
Cane Corso|History|2010 - The Cane Corso was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Stabyhoun|Fun Fact|Stabyhoun translates from the Dutch (sta-me-bij-hond) as "Stand-By-Me-Dog" and is pronounced: Stah BAY hoon.\
Cocker Spaniel|Body|Neck-The neck is sufficiently long to allow the nose to reach the ground easily, muscular and free from pendulous "throatiness." It rises strongly from the shoulders and arches slightly as it tapers to join the head.Topline-sloping slightly toward muscular quarters.Body-The chest is deep, its lowest point no higher than the elbows, its front sufficiently wide for adequate heart and lung space, yet not so wide as to interfere with the straightforward movement of the forelegs. Ribs are deep and well sprung. Back is strong and sloping evenly and slightly downward from the shoulders to the set-on of the docked tail. The dockedtailis set on and carried on a line with the topline of the back, or slightly higher; never straight up like a Terrier and never so low as to indicate timidity. When the dog is in motion the tail action is merry.\
Cocker Spaniel|Forequarters|The shoulders are well laid back forming an angle with the upper arm of approximately 90 degrees which permits the dog to move his forelegs in an easy manner with forward reach. Shoulders are clean-cut and sloping without protrusion and so set that the upper points of the withers are at an angle which permits a wide spring of rib. When viewed from the side with the forelegs vertical, the elbow is directly below the highest point of the shoulder blade. Forelegs are parallel, straight, strongly boned and muscular and set close to the body well under the scapulae. The pasterns are short and strong. Dewclaws on forelegs may be removed. Feet compact, large, round and firm with horny pads; they turn neither in nor out.\
Cocker Spaniel|Head|To attain a well-proportionedhead, which must be in balance with the rest of the dog, it embodies the following:Expression-The expression is intelligent, alert, soft and appealing.Eyes-Eyeballs are round and full and look directly forward. The shape of the eye rims gives a slightly almond shaped appearance; the eye is not weak or goggled. The color of the iris is dark brown and in general the darker the better.Ears-Lobular, long, of fine leather, well feathered, and placed no higher than a line to the lower part of the eye.Skull-Rounded but not exaggerated with no tendency toward flatness; the eyebrows are clearly defined with a pronounced stop. The bony structure beneath the eyes is well chiseled with no prominence in the cheeks.\
Cocker Spaniel|Coat|On the head, short and fine; on the body, medium length, with enough undercoating to give protection. The ears, chest, abdomen and legs are well feathered, but not so excessively as to hide the Cocker Spaniel's true lines and movement or affect his appearance and function as a moderately coated sporting dog. The texture is most important. The coat is silky, flat or slightly wavy and of a texture which permits easy care. Excessive coat or curly or cottony textured coat shall be severely penalized. Use of electric clippers on the back coat is not desirable. Trimming to enhance the dog's true lines should be done to appear as natural as possible.\
Cocker Spaniel|Hindquarters|Hips are wide and quarters well rounded and muscular. When viewed from behind, the hind legs are parallel when in motion and at rest. The hind legs are strongly boned, and muscled with moderate angulation at the stifle and powerful, clearly defined thighs. The stifle is strong and there is no slippage of it in motion or when standing. The hocks are strong and well let down. Dewclaws on hind legs may be removed.\
Cocker Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Cocker Spaniel is known as the "smallest member of the sporting-dog family."\
Cocker Spaniel|Health|Cocker Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
Cocker Spaniel|Grooming|Cockers are intelligent, gentle dogs that will enjoy their daily grooming activities as a great way to bond with you.\
Cocker Spaniel|General Appearance|The Cocker Spaniel is the smallest member of the Sporting Group. He has a sturdy, compact body and a cleanly chiseled and refined head, with the overall dog in complete balance and of ideal size. He stands well up at the shoulder on straight forelegs with a topline sloping slightly toward strong, moderately bent, muscular quarters. He is a dog capable of considerable speed, combined with great endurance. Above all, he must be free and merry, sound, well balanced throughout and in action show a keen inclination to work. A dog well balanced in all parts is more desirable than a dog with strongly contrasting good points and faults.\
Cocker Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cocker Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Cocker Spaniel|Exercise|A well-bred Cocker will have a sweet, trusting, playful disposition.\
Cocker Spaniel|History|1878 - The Cocker Spaniel was offcially recognized by the AKC.\
Scottish Deerhound|Body|General formation is that of a Greyhound of larger size and bone. Chest deep rather than broad but not too narrow or slab-sided. Good girth of chest is indicative of great lung power. The loin well arched and drooping to the tail. A straight back is not desirable, this formation being unsuited for uphill work, and very unsightly.Neck and Shoulders:\'a0Theneckshould be long-of a length befitting the Greyhound character of the dog. Extreme length is neither necessary nor desirable. Deerhounds do not stoop to their work like the Greyhounds. The mane, which every good specimen should have, sometimes detracts from the apparent length of the neck. The neck, however, must be strong as is necessary to hold a stag. The nape of the neck should be very prominent where the head is set on, and the throat clean cut at the angle and prominent. Shoulders should be well sloped; blades well back and not too much width between them. Loaded and straight shoulders are very bad faults.\
Scottish Deerhound|Coat|The hair on the body, neck and quarters should be harsh and wiry about 3 or 4 inches long; that on the head, breast and belly much softer. There should be a slight fringe on the inside of the forelegs and hind legs but nothing approaching the "feather" of a Collie. A woolly coat is bad. Some good strains have a mixture of silky coat with the hard which is preferable to a woolly coat. The climate of the United States tends to produce the mixed coat. The ideal coat is a thick, close-lying ragged coat, harsh or crisp to the touch.\
Scottish Deerhound|Health|Scottish Deerhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Scottish Deerhound|Fun Fact|At one point in history, no one of rank lower than an earl might possess a Scottish Deerhound.\
Scottish Deerhound|Grooming|The breed's crisp, somewhat wiry coat, however, is exceptionally easy-care, requiring only brushing.\
Scottish Deerhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Scottish Deerhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Scottish Deerhound|Exercise|Deerhound puppies are difficult to raise to their potential without a companion playmate and a large play area.\
Scottish Deerhound|History|1886 - The Scottish Deerhound was first recognized by the AKC.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Body|Neck-strong and far reaching, thicker at the base, without excessive throatiness.Topline-from behind withers to rump is level with slight rise over well muscled loin.Body-well developed, sturdy and broad, with deep forechest and prominent sternum. Depth of chest reaches to elbows, ribs well sprung extending well back. Loin well muscled and of moderate length. Belly never tucked up.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Forequarters|Shoulders clean and sloping. Well laid back. Length of shoulder blades approximately equal to length of upper arm. Withers very slightly prominent. Elbows close to the body, turning neither in nor out. Forelegs from front, straight and well-boned. In profile, set well under body.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Head|Expression -noble with a proud head carriage. Eyes convey an intelligent, warm and friendly character.Eyes -large, dark and oval in shape, of the same color, showing no white; haw not visible. Rims fully pigmented.Ears -supple, narrow and fine, ending in an oval shape, draping and folding inwards. Leathers are covered with long hair and reaching at least to the end of the nose. Set on low, below the line of the eye. Viewed from the side, ears should form a corkscrew shape when the dog is relaxed.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Coat|Harsh and straight with undercoat. Not too long, fringing not too abundant. Never silky or wooly. Hair from bridge of nose fans up between the eyes without obscuring the eyes; this protective hair along with shielding eyebrows is an indispensable characteristic of the breed.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Health|Grand Basset Griffon Vendeens are generally a healthy breed.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Fun Fact|The Grand Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en is a french scent hound.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Grooming|The breed's harsh coat does not require excessive maintenance.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|General Appearance|The Grand Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en is a well-balanced, strongly built, rough-coated scent hound of friendly and noble character. He is of medium size with straight legs, deep chest. He is longer than he is tall with a moderately long muzzle, long ears and a long tail. His neck is moderately long and strong, noble head with a mustache and beard, surmounted with protective long eyebrows. His structure was designed to hunt rabbit and hare at a fast pace through the bramble, and over the rough terrain of the Vendee area of France. He is a courageous, passionate and broadly skilled hunter who today is used to hunt not only rabbit and hare but also boar and roe deer. He is active, possessing great stamina for a full days' hunt and uses his voice freely while on the trail. Any feature that detracts from function is a serious fault.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Grand Basset Griffon Vendeens is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|Exercise|The Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen are prized as hunters.\
Grand Basset Griffon Vendeen|History|2004 - The Grand Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Norwegian Buhund|Body|Neck is of medium length, is well set on, with no loose skin on the throat.Topline- The back is level; croup with as little slope as possible.Body- Chest deep, ribs well-sprung; tail set high, tightly curled and carried over the center line of the back.\
Norwegian Buhund|Forequarters|Shoulders moderately sloping, elbows well set, turned neither in nor out; legs substantial but not coarse in bone, legs seen from the front appear straight and parallel; pastern seen from the side moderately sloping; feet oval in shape with tightly closed toes, feet turned neither in nor out.\
Norwegian Buhund|Head|The size of theheadshould be in proportion to the body and not too heavy. Theskullis wedge-shaped, almost flat, and parallel with the bridge of the nose. Themuzzleis about the same length as the skull, with a stop that is well defined but not too pronounced. The nasal bridge is straight and well filled out under the eyes. The lips should be black and tightly closed. The teeth should meet in a scissorsbite, with complete dentition. Disqualifying fault - overshot or undershot mouth.Eyes- Oval shaped, color as dark as possible, black eye rims.Ears- Medium sized, prick ears with pointed tips, carried strongly erect yet very mobile. When relaxed or showing affection the ears go back, and the dog should not be penalized for doing this during the judge's examination. Nose - Black.\
Norwegian Buhund|Coat|Outer coat is thick and hard, but rather smooth lying. The under coat is soft and dense. The coat on the head and front of the legs is comparatively short. The coat on the neck, chest and back of thighs is longer.\
Norwegian Buhund|Hindquarters|Moderate angulation at stifle and hock, upper thigh powerful, well muscled; lower thigh well muscled, seen from behind legs are straight and strong, feet same as above.\
Norwegian Buhund|Fun Fact|The Norwegian Buhund is also known as Norsk Buhund and Norwegian Sheepdog.\
Norwegian Buhund|Health|Norwegian Buhunds are generally a healthy breed.\
Norwegian Buhund|Grooming|Grooming is minimal - brushing will maintain the breed's medium to short easy care coat.\
Norwegian Buhund|General Appearance|The Norwegian Buhund is a herding dog. It is a typical northern breed, a little under medium size and squarely built, with a tightly curled tail carried over the back. The head is wedge-shaped and not too heavy, with prick ears. As it is extremely intelligent by nature, consistent training is needed from early puppyhood. The Buhund has a lot of energy, strength and stamina. This self-appointed watchdog is also content lying at your feet at the end of the day. Broken teeth and honorable scars incurred in the line of herding duty are acceptable.\
Norwegian Buhund|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norwegian Buhunds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Norwegian Buhund|Exercise|Very Active; Buhunds are lively, agile dogs who like to keep busy.\
Norwegian Buhund|History|2009 - The Norwegian Buhund was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Barbet|Health|Barbets are generally a healthy breed.\
Barbet|Fun Fact|Henry IV of France (1553-1610); King of France (1589-1610), enjoyed water fowling with his Barbets.\
Barbet|Grooming|Beyond regular weekly grooming, the occasional bath will keep them clean and looking their best.\
Barbet|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Barbets is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Barbet|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Barbet|History|2007 - The Barbet has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since 2007.\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|Health|\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|Fun Fact|The Braque Francais Pyrenean has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since July 2016.\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|Grooming|\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|Nutrition & Feeding|\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|Exercise|\
Braque Francais Pyrenean|History|2016 - The Braque Francais has been approved for Pointing Breed Hunt Tests effective July 11, 2016\
Miniature Pinscher|Body|Neckproportioned to head and body, slightly arched, gracefully curved, blending into shoulders, muscular and free from suggestion of dewlap or throatiness.Topline-Back level or slightly sloping toward the rear both when standing and gaiting.Bodycompact, slightly wedge-shaped, muscular. Forechest\'a0well developed. Well-sprung\'a0ribs\'a0. Depth of brisket, the base line of which is level with points of the elbows. Belly moderately tucked up to denote grace of structural form. Short and strong in\'a0loin. Croup\'a0level with topline.Tailset high, held erect, docked in proportion to size of dog.\
Miniature Pinscher|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0clean and sloping with moderate angulation coordinated to permit the hackney-like action. Elbows close to the body.\'a0Legs\'a0-Strong bone development and small clean joints. As viewed from the front, straight and upstanding.\'a0Pasterns\'a0strong, perpendicular.\'a0Dewclaws\'a0should be removed. Feet small, catlike, toes strong, well arched and closely knit with deep pads. Nails thick, blunt.\
Miniature Pinscher|Head|In correct proportion to the body. Tapering, narrow with well fitted but not too prominent foreface which balances with the skull. No indication of coarseness.Eyesfull, slightly oval, clear, bright and dark even to a true black, including eye rims, with the exception of chocolates, whose eye rims should be self-colored.Earsset high, standing erect from base to tip. May be cropped or uncropped.\
Miniature Pinscher|Coat|Smooth, hard and short, straight and lustrous, closely adhering to and uniformly covering the body.\
Miniature Pinscher|Hindquarters|Well muscled quarters set wide enough apart to fit into a properly balanced body. As viewed from the rear, the\'a0legs\'a0are straight and parallel. From the side, well angulated.\'a0Thighs\'a0well muscled.\'a0Stifles\'a0well defined.\'a0Hocks\'a0short, set well apart.\'a0Dewclaws\'a0should be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0small, catlike, toes strong, well arched and closely knit with deep pads.\'a0Nails\'a0thick, blunt.\
Miniature Pinscher|Fun Fact|The Miniature Pinscher is native to Germany.\
Miniature Pinscher|Health|The Miniature Pinscher is a relatively healthy and hearty breed.\
Miniature Pinscher|Grooming|His short, easy-care coat requires occasional brushing.\
Miniature Pinscher|General Appearance|The Miniature Pinscher is structurally a well balanced, sturdy, compact, short-coupled, smooth-coated dog. He naturally is well groomed, proud, vigorous and alert. Characteristic traits are his hackney-like action, fearless animation, complete self-possession, and his spirited presence.\
Miniature Pinscher|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Miniature Pinscher is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Miniature Pinscher|Exercise|Miniature Pinschers are ideal for small homes, condominiums, or apartments.\
Miniature Pinscher|History|1925 - The Miniature Pinscher was officially recognized by the AKC.\
American Eskimo Dog|Forequarters|Forequarters are well angulated. The shoulder is firmly set and has adequate muscle but is not overdeveloped. The shoulder blades are well laid back and slant 45 degrees with the horizontal. At the point of shoulder the shoulder blade forms an approximate right angle with the upper arm. The legs are parallel and straight to the pasterns. The pasterns are strong and flexible with a slant of about 20 degrees. Length of leg in proportion to the body. Dewclaws on the front legs may be removed at the owner's discretion; if present, they are not to be faulted. Feet are oval, compact, tightly knit and well padded with hair. Toes are well arched. Pads are black to dark brown, tough and deeply cushioned. Toenails are white.\
American Eskimo Dog|Head|Expressionis keen, intelligent, and alert.Eyesare not fully round, but slightly oval. They should be set well apart, and not slanted, prominent or bulging. Tear stain, unless severe, is not to be faulted. Presence of tear stain should not outweigh consideration of type, structure, or temperament. Dark to medium brown is the preferred eye color. Eye rims are black to dark brown. Eyelashes are white. Faults - amber eye color or pink eye rims. Disqualification-blue eyes.Earsshould conform to head size and be triangular, slightly blunt-tipped, held erect, set on high yet well apart, and blend softly with the head.\
American Eskimo Dog|Coat|The American Eskimo Dog has a stand-off, double coat consisting of a dense undercoat and a longer coat of guard hair growing through it to form the outer coat. It is straight with no curl or wave. There is a pronounced ruff around the neck which is more noticeable on dogs than bitches. Outer part of the ear should be well covered with short, smooth hair, with longer tufts of hair growing in front of ear openings. Hair on muzzle should be short and smooth. The backs of the front legs should be well feathered, as are the rear legs down to the hock. The tail is covered profusely with long hair.\
American Eskimo Dog|Hindquarters|Hindquarters are well angulated. The lay of the pelvis is approximately 30 degrees to the horizontal. The upper thighs are well developed. Stifles are well bent. Hock joints are well let down and firm. The rear pasterns are straight. Legs are parallel from the rear and turn neither in nor out. Feet are as described for the front legs. Dewclaws are not present on the hind legs.\
American Eskimo Dog|Fun Fact|The American Eskimo Dog is nicknamed the "Eskie."\
American Eskimo Dog|Health|In general, the American Eskimo dog is a relatively healthy breed that lives a long life.\
American Eskimo Dog|Grooming|Their pure white voluminous double coat needs to be brushed and bathed on a regular basis.\
American Eskimo Dog|General Appearance|The American Eskimo Dog, a loving companion dog, presents a picture of strength and agility, alertness and beauty. It is a small to medium-size Nordic type dog, always white, or white with biscuit cream. The American Eskimo Dog is compactly built and well balanced, with good substance, and an alert, smooth gait. The face is Nordic type with erect triangular shaped ears, and distinctive black points (lips, nose, and eye rims). The white double coat consists of a short, dense undercoat, with a longer guard hair growing through it forming the outer coat, which is straight with no curl or wave. The coat is thicker and longer around the neck and chest forming a lion-like ruff, which is more noticeable on dogs than on bitches. The rump and hind legs down to the hocks are also covered with thicker, longer hair forming the characteristic breeches. The richly plumed tail is carried loosely on the back.\
American Eskimo Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Eskimo Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Eskimo Dog|Exercise|Very Active; This quick, curious dog needs regular exercise and mental challenges.\
American Eskimo Dog|History|1994 - The American Eskimo was officially recognized by the AKC\
Havanese|Body|Theneckis slightly arched, of moderate length, blends smoothly into the shoulders and is in balance with the height and length of the dog. The prosternum is evident but not prominent. The chest is deep, well developed, and reaches the elbow. The straighttoplinerises slightly from the withers to the croup. Measured from point of shoulder to point of buttocks, thebodyis slightly longer than the height at the withers. This length comes from the ribcage. Ribs are well sprung. The loin is short and well muscled. There is a moderate tuck-up. Thetailis high-set and arches forward up over the back. It is plumed with long, silky hair. The tail plume may fall straight forward or to either side of the body. While standing, a dropped tail is permissible. The tail may not be docked.\
Havanese|Forequarters|The tops of the shoulder blades lie in at the withers, allowing the neck to blend smoothly into the back. Moderate shoulder layback is sufficient to carry the head and neck high. The upper arm is short. Elbows are tight to the body and forelegs are straight when viewed from any angle. The length from the foot to the elbow is equal to the length from elbow to withers. Pasterns are short, strong and flexible, very slightly sloping. Dewclaws may be removed. The feet have arched toes and point straight ahead. Pads and nails may be any color.\
Havanese|Head|Theexpressionis soft, intelligent and mischievous.Eyesare large, dark brown and almond-shaped. Chocolate dogs may have somewhat lighter brown eyes. Eye rims are solid black for all colors except for chocolate dogs which have solid brown eye rims. Incomplete or total lack of pigmentation of the eye rims is a disqualification.Earsare broad at the base, dropped, and have a distinct fold. They are set high on the skull, slightly above the endpoint of the zygomatic arch. When alert, the ears lift at the base but always remain folded. Ear leather, when extended, reaches halfway to the nose.\
Havanese|Coat|Silky to the touch, the coat is soft and light in texture in both outer and undercoat, although the outer coat carries slightly more weight. The coat is long, abundant and wavy. It stands off the body slightly, but flows with movement. An ideal coat will permit the natural lines of the dog to be seen. Puppy coat may be shorter and have a softer texture than adult coat. The coat may be corded. Corded coats will naturally separate into wavy sections in young dogs and will in time develop into cords. Adult corded dogs will be completely covered with a full coat of tassel-like cords.\
Havanese|Hindquarters|The hind legs are muscular with moderate angulation. Hocks are well let down; pasterns are parallel from hock to foot. The croup is slightly higher than the withers. Dewclaws may be removed. The feet have arched toes and point straight ahead. Pads and nails may be any color.\
Havanese|Fun Fact|The Havanese is the National Dog of Cuba and the country's only native breed (Havana = Havanese).\
Havanese|Health|Havanese are generally a healthy breed.\
Havanese|Grooming|The Havanese's non-shedding coat makes it suitable for allergy sufferers, but regular grooming is necessary.\
Havanese|General Appearance|The Havanese is a small, sturdy dog of immense charm. The native dog of Cuba, he is beloved as a friendly, intelligent and playful companion. He is slightly longer than tall, with a long, untrimmed, double coat. The Havanese has a short upper arm with moderate shoulder layback and a straight topline that rises slightly from the withers to the croup. The plumed tail is carried arched forward up over the back. The unique springy gait is a result of the breed's structure and playful, spirited personality. These characteristics of temperament, coat, structure and gait are essential to type.\
Havanese|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Havanese is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Havanese|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Curious, sociable dogs, Havanese enjoy a good romp but have no special exercise needs.\
Havanese|History|1996 - The Havanese was officially recognized by the AKC\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Body|Theneckshould be fairly long. It should be strong, free from throatiness and in balance with thedog. The chest should not be too wide, but very deep and capacious, ribs moderately well sprung, never rounded like barrel hoops (which would indicate want of speed). The back is powerful and firm with strong loins which are muscular and slightly arched.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Forequarters|The shoulders should be sloping, clean and muscular, denoting speed. Elbows close to the body. The forelegs should be perfectly straight, strong and heavy in bone. The feet should be compact with well-arched toes, round, tough, elastic pads, protected by hair between the toes and pads. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Head|Should be of fair length, theskullflat and rather broad between the ears and should be free from wrinkles when in repose. The stop should be reasonably well defined.Eyes- should be moderately well apart and should be round, bright and sparkling with intelligent expression, their color harmonizing with the color of the dog.Ears- should be set rather high, of medium size, rather wide at the base and tapering to a rounded point. They should be carried close to the head.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Coat|The hallmark of this breed is theridgeon the back which is formed by the hair growing in the opposite direction to the rest of the coat. The ridge must be regarded as the characteristic feature of the breed. The ridge should be clearly defined, tapering and symmetrical. It should start immediately behind the shoulders and continue to a point between the prominence of the hips and should contain two identical crowns (whorls) directly opposite each other.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Hindquarters|In the hind legs the muscles should be clean, well defined and hocks well down. Feet as in front.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Fun Fact|The peculiarity of the Ridgeback breed is the ridge of hair which grows forward on his back.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Health|Rhodesian Ridgebacks are generally a healthy breed.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Grooming|Due to their short coats Rhodesian Ridgebacks shed very little and require only weekly brushing.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|General Appearance|The Ridgeback represents a strong, muscular and active hound, symmetrical and balanced in outline. A mature Ridgeback is a handsome, upstanding and athletic dog, capable of great endurance with a fair (good) amount of speed. Of even, dignified temperament, the Ridgeback is devoted and affectionate to his master, reserved with strangers. The peculiarity of this breed is theridgeon the back. The ridge must be regarded as the characteristic feature of the breed.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Rhodesian Ridgebacks is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Athletic, quick, and strong, RRs need lots of exercise and socialization.\
Rhodesian Ridgeback|History|1955 - The Rhodesian Ridgeback was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Lakeland Terrier|Body|The\'a0body\'a0is strong and supple. The moderately narrow ovalchestis deep, extending to the elbows. Theribsare well sprung and moderately rounded off the vertebrae. The Lakeland Terrier is a breed of moderation.\
Lakeland Terrier|Forequarters|Theshouldersare well angulated. An imaginary line drawn from the top of the shoulder blade should pass through the elbow. The shoulder blade is long in proportion to the upper arm, which allows for reasonable angulation while maintaining the more upright "terrier front." The musculature of the shoulders is flat and smooth. Theelbowsare held close to the body, standing or moving. Theforelegsare strong, clean and straight when viewed from the front or side. There is no appreciable bend at the pasterns. Thefeetare round and point forward, the toes compact and strong. The pads are thick and black or dark gray, except in liver colored dogs where they are brown. The nails are strong and may be black or self-colored. Dewclaws are removed.\
Lakeland Terrier|Head|The head is well balanced, rectangular, the length of skull equaling the length of the muzzle when measured from occiput to stop, and from stop to nose tip.\
Lakeland Terrier|Coat|Two-ply or double, the\'a0outer coat\'a0is hard and wiry in texture, the\'a0undercoat\'a0is close to the skin and soft and should never overpower the wiry outer coat. The Lakeland is hand stripped to show his outline. (Clipping is inappropriate for the show ring.) The appearance should be neat and workmanlike. The coat on the skull, ears, forechest, shoulders and behind the tail is trimmed short and smooth. The coat on the body is longer (about one-half to one inch) and may be slightly wavy or straight. The furnishings on the legs and foreface are plentiful as opposed to profuse and should be tidy. They are crisp in texture. The legs should appear cylindrical. The face is traditionally trimmed, with the hair left longer over the eyes to give the head a rectangular appearance from all angles, with the eyes covered from above. From the front, the eyes are quite apparent, giving the Lakeland his own unique mischievous expression.\
Lakeland Terrier|Hindquarters|Thethighsare powerful and well muscled. Thehindlegs are well angulated, but not so much as to affect the balance between front and rear, which allows for smooth efficient movement. Thestiflesturn neither in nor out. The distance from thehockto the ground is relatively short and the line from the hock to toes is straight when viewed from the side. From the rear the hocks are parallel to each other.Feetsame as front. Dewclaws, if any, are removed.\
Lakeland Terrier|Fun Fact|The Lakeland Terrier breed was developed to protect sheep from foxes.\
Lakeland Terrier|Health|Like all breeds there may be some health issues.\
Lakeland Terrier|Grooming|The Lakeland\'92s coat sheds minimally but requires periodic clipping by a groomer.\
Lakeland Terrier|General Appearance|The Lakeland Terrier is a small, workmanlike dog of square, sturdy build. His body is deep and relatively narrow, which allows him to squeeze into rocky dens. He has sufficient length of leg under him to cover rough ground easily. His neck is long, leading smoothly into high withers and a short topline ending in a high tail set. His attitude is gay, friendly, and self-confident, but not overly aggressive. He is alert and ready to go. His movement is lithe and graceful, with a straight-ahead, free stride of good length. His head is rectangular, jaws are powerful, and ears are V-shaped. A dense, wiry coat is finished off with longer furnishings on muzzle and legs.\
Lakeland Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Lakeland Terriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Lakeland Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Bold and zesty Lakies need outlets for their energy; known as backyard \'93escape artists.\'94\
Lakeland Terrier|History|1934 - The Lakeland Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Body|Short and deep, with the brisket extending at least to the elbows. Ribs are well sprung and deep, extending well back to a short loin. The underbody does not present a tucked up appearance at the flank. Thebacklineis straight; it declines slightly from the withers to the base of the tail. The withers form the highest point of the body. The overall length from chest to buttock appears to equal the height at the withers. Faults - Chest too broad or shallow in brisket. Hollow or roach back.Tail- set high and carried erect.\'a0 It is docked only long enough to be clearly visible over the backline of the body when the dog is in proper length of coat.\'a0 A properly presented Miniature Schnauzer will have a docked tail as described; all others should be severely penalized. Fault - Tail set too low.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Forequarters|Forelegs are straight and parallel when viewed from all sides. They have strong pasterns and good bone. They are separated by a fairly deep brisket which precludes a pinched front. The elbows are close, and the ribs spread gradually from the first rib so as to allow space for the elbows to move close to the body. Fault - Loose elbows. The sloping shoulders are muscled, yet flat and clean. They are well laid back, so that from the side the tips of the shoulder blades are in a nearly vertical line above the elbow. The tips of the blades are placed closely together. They slope forward and downward at an angulation which permits the maximum forward extension of the forelegs without binding or effort. Both the shoulder blades and upper arms are long, permitting depth of chest at the brisket. Feet short and round (cat feet) with thick, black pads. The toes are arched and compact.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Coat|Double, with hard, wiry, outer coat and close undercoat. The head, neck, ears, chest, tail, and body coat must be plucked. When in show condition, the body coat should be of sufficient length to determine texture. Close covering on neck, ears and skull. Furnishings are fairly thick but not silky. Faults - Coat too soft or too smooth and slick in appearance.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Hindquarters|The hindquarters have strong-muscled, slanting thighs. They are well bent at the stifles. There is sufficient angulation so that, in stance, the hocks extend beyond the tail. The hindquarters never appear overbuilt or higher than the shoulders. The rear pasterns are short and, in stance, perpendicular to the ground and, when viewed from the rear, are parallel to each other. Faults - Sickle hocks, cow hocks, open hocks or bowed hindquarters.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Fun Fact|The Miniature Schnauzer is the most popular of the three Schnauzer breeds.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Health|Miniature Schnauzers are generally a healthy breed.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Grooming|Their double coat requires hand stripping for the show ring or clipping for the average pet owner but sheds very little.\
Miniature Schnauzer|General Appearance|The Miniature Schnauzer is a robust, active dog of terrier type, resembling his larger cousin, the Standard Schnauzer, in general appearance, and of an alert, active disposition. Faults - Type - Toyishness, ranginess or coarseness.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Miniature Schnauzer is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Miniature Schnauzer|Exercise|Highly adaptable, the Miniature Schnauzer can make himself at home anywhere as long as his people are close by.\
Miniature Schnauzer|History|1926 - The Miniature Schnauzer was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Pumi|Health|Pumis are generally a healthy breed.\
Pumi|Fun Fact|The first Pumis were imported to Finland in 1972.\
Pumi|Grooming|The breed's coat consists of 50 percent soft hair and 50 percent harsher hair, all the same length.\
Pumi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pumis is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Pumi|Exercise|This breed is intelligent and energetic needing regular exercise and mental stimulation.\
Pumi|History|2016 - The Pumi was officially recognized by the AKC\
Rafeiro do Alentejo|Fun Fact|The Rafeiro do Alentjos has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Body|Neck- Graceful and muscular, arched toward the head and blending cleanly, without throatiness, into sloping shoulders; moderate in length and in balance with the length and height of the dog.Topline- The line of the neck blends into the shoulder and backline in a smooth curve. The backline slopes very slightly toward a gently rounded croup, and is free from sagging or rumpiness.Body- Compact and well-knit, giving the impression of strength without heaviness.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Forequarters|The English Cocker is moderately angulated. Shoulders are sloping, the blade flat and smoothly fitting. Shoulder blade and upper arm are approximately equal in length. Upper arm set well back, joining the shoulder with sufficient angulation to place the elbow beneath the highest point of the shoulder blade when the dog is standing naturally. Forelegs-Straight, with bone nearly uniform in size from elbow to heel; elbows set close to the body; pasterns nearly straight, with some flexibility.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Head|General appearance: strong, yet free from coarseness, softly contoured, without sharp angles. Taken as a whole, the parts combine to produce the expression distinctive of the breed.Expression- Soft, melting, yet dignified, alert, and intelligent.Eyes- The eyes are essential to the desired expression. They are medium in size, full and slightly oval; set wide apart; lids tight. Haws are inconspicuous; may be pigmented or unpigmented. Eye color dark brown, except in livers and liver parti-colors where hazel is permitted, but the darker the hazel the better.Ears- Set low, lying close to the head; leather fine, extending to the nose, well covered with long, silky, straight or slightly wavy hair.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Coat|On head, short and fine; of medium length on body; flat or slightly wavy; silky in texture. The English Cocker is well-feathered, but not so profusely as to interfere with field work. Trimming is permitted to remove overabundant hair and to enhance the dogs true lines. It should be done so as to appear as natural as possible.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Hindquarters|Angulation moderate and, most importantly, in balance with that of the forequarters. Hips relatively broad and well rounded. Upper thighs broad, thick and muscular, providing plenty of propelling power. Second thighs well muscled and approximately equal in length to the upper. Stifle strong and well bent. Hock to pad short. Feet as in front.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Fun Fact|The English Cocker Spaniel was recognized as a separate breed by the American Kennel Club in 1946.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Health|English Cocker Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Grooming|Their medium-long coat does take some care, including brushing and regular stripping or clipping.\
English Cocker Spaniel|General Appearance|The English Cocker Spaniel is an active, merry sporting dog, standing well up at the withers and compactly built. He is alive with energy; his gait is powerful and frictionless, capable both of covering ground effortlessly and penetrating dense cover to flush and retrieve game. His enthusiasm in the field and the incessant action of his tail while at work indicate how much he enjoys the hunting for which he was bred. His head is especially characteristic. He is, above all, a dog of balance, both standing and moving, without exaggeration in any part, the whole worth more than the sum of its parts.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for English Cocker Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
English Cocker Spaniel|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Upbeat outdoors, mellow indoors, ECs are happy to flush a bird or snooze at your feet.\
English Cocker Spaniel|History|1945 - The English Cocker Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
English Setter|Forequarters|Shoulder-shoulder blade well laid back. Upper arm equal in length to and forming a nearly right angle with the shoulder blade. Shoulders fairly close together at the tips. Shoulder blades lie flat and meld smoothly with contours of body. Forelegs- from front or side, forelegs straight and parallel. Elbows have no tendency to turn in or out when standing or gaiting. Arm flat and muscular. Bone substantial but not coarse and muscles hard and devoid of flabbiness. Pasterns-short, strong and nearly round with the slope deviating very slightly forward from the perpendicular. Feet-face directly forward. Toes closely set, strong and well arched. Pads well developed and tough. Dewclaws may be removed.\
English Setter|Head|Size and proportion in harmony with body. Long and lean with a well defined stop. When viewed from the side, head planes (top of muzzle, top of skull and bottom of lower jaw) are parallel.Skull-oval when viewed from above, of medium width, without coarseness, and only slightly wider at the earset than at the brow. Moderately defined occipital protuberance. Length of skull from occiput to stop equal in length of muzzle.Eyes-dark brown, the darker the better. Bright, and spaced to give a mild and intelligent expression. Nearly round, fairly large, neither deepset nor protruding. Eyelid rims dark and fully pigmented. Lids fit tightly so that haw is not exposed.Ears-set well back and low, even with or below eye level. When relaxed carried close to the head. Of moderate length, slightly rounded at the ends, moderately thin leather, and covered with silky hair.\
English Setter|Coat|Flat without curl or wooliness. Feathering on ears, chest, abdomen, underside of thighs, back of all legs and on the tail of good length but not so excessive as to hide true lines and movement or to affect the dog's appearance or function as a sporting dog.\
English Setter|Hindquarters|Wide, muscular thighs and well developed lower thighs. Pelvis equal in length to and forming a nearly right angle with upper thigh. In balance with forequarter assembly. Stifle well bent and strong. Lower thigh only slightly longer than upper thigh. Hock joint well bent and strong. Rear pastern short, strong, nearly round and perpendicular to the ground. Hind legs, when seen from the rear, straight and parallel to each other. Hock joints have no tendency to turn in or out when standing or gaiting.\
English Setter|Fun Fact|English Setters were trained bird dogs in England more than 400 years ago.\
English Setter|Health|English Setters are generally a healthy breed.\
English Setter|Grooming|Their beautiful, feathered coat requires regular maintenance, including brushing and clipping.\
English Setter|General Appearance|An elegant, substantial and symmetrical gun dog suggesting the ideal blend of strength, stamina, grace, and style. Flat-coated with feathering of good length. Gaiting freely and smoothly with long forward reach, strong rear drive and firm topline. Males decidedly masculine without coarseness. Females decidedly feminine without over-refinement. Overall appearance, balance, gait, and purpose to be given more emphasis than any component part. Above all, extremes of anything distort type and must be faulted.\
English Setter|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for English Setters is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
English Setter|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Game and boisterous at play and work, a joy to live with at home.\
English Setter|History|1884 - The English Setter was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Body|The length of thebodyfrom the point of the breast bone, in a straight line to the buttocks, is greater than the height at the withers, as 10 is to 9. Thetoplineis level, back strong with ribs well sprung and carried well back not barrel ribbed. The chest is deep, muscular and moderately broad with the loins broad, strong and muscular and the flanks deep. The dog is strongly coupled.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Forequarters|The shoulders are strong, sloping, muscular and well angulated to the upper arm and should not be too closely set at the point of the withers. The forelegs have strong, round bone, extending to the feet and should be straight and parallel when viewed from the front, but the pasterns should show flexibility with a slight angle to the forearm when viewed from the side. Although the shoulders are muscular and the bone is strong, loaded shoulders and heavy fronts will hamper correct movement and limit working ability.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Head|Theheadis strong and must be in balance with other proportions of the dog and in keeping with its general conformation. The broadskullis slightly curved between the ears, flattening to a slight but definite stop. The cheeks muscular, neither coarse nor prominent with the underjaw strong, deep and well developed. The foreface is broad and well filled in under the eyes, tapering gradually to form a medium length, deep, powerful muzzle with the skull and muzzle on parallel planes. The lips are tight and clean. Nose black.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Coat|The coat is smooth, a double coat with a short dense undercoat. The outer-coat is close, each hair straight, hard, and lying flat, so that it is rain-resisting. Under the body, to behind the legs, the coat is longer and forms near the thigh a mild form of breeching. On the head (including the inside of the ears), to the front of the legs and feet, the hair is short. Along the neck it is longer and thicker. A coat either too long or too short is a fault. As an average, the hairs on the body should be from 2\'bd to 4 centimeters (approximately 1 to 1\'bd inches) in length.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are broad, strong and muscular. The croup is rather long and sloping, thighs long, broad and well developed, the stifles well turned and the hocks strong and well let down. When viewed from behind, the hind legs, from the hocks to the feet, are straight and placed parallel, neither close nor too wide apart.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Fun Fact|The standard for the Australian Cattle Dog was drawn up by Mr. Robert Kaleski in 1902 and was based on the Dingo type.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Health|In general, ACDs are sturdy, healthy dogs.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Grooming|Care of the coat requires only occasional baths and weekly brushing.\
Australian Cattle Dog|General Appearance|The general appearance is that of a strong compact, symmetrically built working dog, with the ability and willingness to carry out his allotted task however arduous. Its combination of substance, power, balance and hard muscular condition must convey the impression of great agility, strength and endurance. Any tendency to grossness or weediness is a serious fault.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Australian Cattle Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Australian Cattle Dog|Exercise|Very Active; These high-energy dogs need a job to remain happy.\
Australian Cattle Dog|History|1980 - The Australian Cattle Dog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Border Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0well laid back and of good length, the blades converging to the withers gradually from a brisket not excessively deep or narrow.\'a0Forelegs\'a0straight and not too heavy in bone and placed slightly wider than in a Fox Terrier.\'a0Feet\'a0small and compact. Toes should point forward and be moderately arched with thick pads.\
Border Terrier|Head|Similar to that of an otter.Eyesdark hazel and full of fire and intelligence. Moderate in size, neither prominent nor small and beady.Earssmall, V-shaped and of moderate thickness, dark preferred. Not set high on the head but somewhat on the side, and dropping forward close to the cheeks. They should not break above the level of the skull. Moderately broad and flat in\'a0skull\'a0with plenty of width between the eyes and between the ears. A slight, moderately broad curve at the\'a0stop\'a0rather than a pronounced indentation. Cheeks slightly full.Muzzleshort and "well filled." A dark muzzle is characteristic and desirable. A few short whiskers are natural to the breed.\'a0Nose\'a0black, and of a good size.\'a0Teeth\'a0strong, with a scissorsbite, large in proportion to size of dog.\
Border Terrier|Coat|A short and dense undercoat covered with a very wiry and somewhat broken topcoat which should lie closely, but it must not show any tendency to curl or wave. With such a coat a Border should be able to be exhibited almost in his natural state, nothing more in the way of trimming being needed than a tidying up of the head, neck and feet.\'a0Hide\'a0very thick and loose fitting.\
Border Terrier|Hindquarters|Muscular and racy, with\'a0thighs\'a0long and nicely molded.\'a0Stifles\'a0well bent and\'a0hocks\'a0well let down.\'a0Feet as in front.\
Border Terrier|Fun Fact|Border Terriers have a weather resistant coat with a hard, wiry outercoat and soft undercoat that repels most dirt.\
Border Terrier|Health|Border Terriers are generally a healthy and robust breed.\
Border Terrier|Grooming|The Border's weather resistant coat requires occasional brushing and hand stripping approximately twice per year.\
Border Terrier|General Appearance|He is an active terrier of medium bone, strongly put together, suggesting endurance and agility, but rather narrow in shoulder, body and quarter. The body is covered with a somewhat broken though close-fitting and intensely wiry jacket. The characteristic "otter" head with its keen eye, combined with a body poise which is "at the alert," gives a look of fearless and implacable determination characteristic of the breed. Since the Border Terrier is a working terrier of a size to go to ground and able, within reason, to follow a horse, his conformation should be such that he be ideally built to do his job. No deviations from this ideal conformation should be permitted, which would impair his usefulness in running his quarry to earth and in bolting it therefrom. For this work he must be alert, active and agile, and capable of squeezing through narrow apertures and rapidly traversing any kind of terrain. His head, "like that of an otter," is distinctive, and his temperament ideally exemplifies that of a terrier.\
Border Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Border Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Border Terrier|Exercise|Border Terriers love exploring outdoors and make fine childhood playmates.\
Border Terrier|History|1930 - The Border Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Brittany|Body|Neck- Medium length. Free from throatiness, though not a serious fault unless accompanied by dewlaps, strong without giving the impression of being over muscled. Well set into sloping shoulders. Never concave or ewe-necked.Topline- Slight slope from the highest point of the shoulders to the root of the tail. Chest-Deep, reaching the level of the elbow. Neither so wide nor so rounded as to disturb the placement of the shoulders and elbows. Ribs well sprung. Adequate heart room provided by depth as well as width. Narrow or slab-sided chests are a fault. Back-Short and straight. Never hollow, saddle, sway or roach backed. Slight drop from the hips to the root of the tail. Flanks-Rounded. Fairly full. Not extremely tucked up, or flabby and falling. Loins short and strong. Distance from last rib to upper thigh short, about three to four finger widths. Narrow and weak loins are a fault. In motion, the loin should not sway sideways, giving a zig-zag motion to the back, wasting energy.\
Brittany|Forequarters|Shoulders - Shoulder blades should not protrude too much, not too wide apart, with perhaps two thumbs' width between. Sloping and muscular. Blade and upper arm should form nearly a ninety degree angle. Straight shoulders are a fault. At the shoulders, the Brittany is slightly higher than at the rump. Front Legs - Viewed from the front, perpendicular, but not set too wide. Elbows and feet turning neither in nor out. Pasterns slightly sloped. Down in pasterns is a serious fault. Leg bones clean, graceful, but not too fine. Extremely heavy bone is as much a fault as spindly legs. One must look for substance and suppleness. Height at elbows should approximately equal distance from elbow to withers.\
Brittany|Head|Expression- Alert and eager, but with the soft expression of a bird dog.Eyes- Well set in head. Well protected from briars by a heavy, expressive eyebrow. A prominent full or popeye should be penalized. It is a serious fault in a dog that must face briars. Skull well chiseled under the eyes, so that the lower lid is not pulled back to form a pocket or haw that would catch seeds, dirt and weed dust. Preference should be for the darker colored eyes, though lighter shades of amber should not be penalized. Light and mean-looking eyes should be heavily penalized.\
Brittany|Coat|Dense, flat or wavy, never curly. Texture neither wiry nor silky. Ears should carry little fringe. The front and hind legs should have some feathering, but too little is definitely preferable to too much. Dogs with long or profuse feathering or furnishings shall be so severely penalized as to effectively eliminate them from competition. Skin - Fine and fairly loose. A loose skin rolls with briars and sticks, thus diminishing punctures or tearing. A skin so loose as to form pouches is undesirable.\
Brittany|Hindquarters|Broad strong and muscular, with powerful thighs and well bent stifles, giving the angulation necessary for powerful drive. Hind Legs - Stifles well bent. The stifle should not be so angulated as to place the hock joint far out behind the dog. A Brittany should not be condemned for straight stifle until the judge has checked the dog in motion from the side. The stifle joint should not turn out making a cowhock. Thighs well feathered but not profusely, halfway to the hock. Hocks, that is, the back pasterns, should be moderately short, pointing neither in nor out, perpendicular when viewed from the side. They should be firm when shaken by the judge. Feet - Same as front feet.\
Brittany|Fun Fact|The Brittany was named for the French Province in which it originated.\
Brittany|Health|Brittanys are generally a healthy breed.\
Brittany|Grooming|Brittany\'92s coats shed dirt and mud when allowed to dry and requires only regular brushing once or twice a week.\
Brittany|General Appearance|A compact, closely knit dog of medium size, a leggy dog having the appearance, as well as the agility, of a great ground coverer. Strong, vigorous, energetic and quick of movement. Ruggedness, without clumsiness, is a characteristic of the breed. He can be tailless or has a tail docked to approximately four inches.\
Brittany|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Brittanys is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Brittany|Exercise|Patient, encouraging training works best with these gentle souls.\
Brittany|History|1934 - The Brittany was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Pharaoh Hound|Body|Necklong, lean and muscular with a slight arch to carry the head on high. Clean throat line. Almost straighttopline. Slight slope from croup to root of tail.Bodylithe. Deep brisket almost down to point of elbow. Ribs well sprung. Moderate tuck-up.Tailmedium set - fairly thick at the base and tapering whip-like, reaching below the point of hock in repose. Well carried and curved when in action. The tail should not be tucked between the legs. A screw tail is a fault.\
Pharaoh Hound|Forequarters|Shoulders long and sloping and well laid back. Strong without being loaded. Elbows well tucked in. Forelegs straight and parallel. Pasterns strong. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet neither cat nor hare but strong, well knuckled and firm, turning neither in nor out. Paws well padded.\
Pharaoh Hound|Head|Alertexpression.Eyesamber colored, blending with coat; oval, moderately deep set with keen intelligent expression.Earsmedium high set, carried erect when alert, but very mobile, broad at the base, fine and large.\
Pharaoh Hound|Coat|Short and glossy, ranging from fine and close to slightly harsh with no feathering. Accident blemishes should not be considered as faults.\
Pharaoh Hound|Hindquarters|Strong and muscular. Limbs parallel. Moderate sweep of stifle. Well developed second thigh. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet as in front.\
Pharaoh Hound|Fun Fact|The Pharaoh Hound is one of the oldest domesticated dogs in recorded history.\
Pharaoh Hound|Health|Pharaoh Hounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Pharaoh Hound|Grooming|The breed's short, glossy coat is low-maintenance.\
Pharaoh Hound|General Appearance|General Appearance is one of grace, power and speed. The Pharaoh Hound is medium sized, of noble bearing with hard clean-cut lines-graceful, well balanced, very fast with free easy movement and alert expression.The following description is that of the ideal Pharaoh Hound. Any deviation from the below described dog must be penalized to the extent of the deviation.\
Pharaoh Hound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pharaoh Hounds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Pharaoh Hound|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Playful and energetic sprinters outdoors, they settle down nicely at home.\
Pharaoh Hound|History|1983 - The Pharaoh Hound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
American English Coonhound|Forequarters|Shoulders and Angulation-Clean, gradually sloped down from the withers to the point of shoulder, muscular, balanced with body, showing freedom of movement and strength. Fault: Protruding shoulders. Forelegs-Straight from side or front view, well boned, set well apart, muscular. Pastern-Strong and straight. Feet-Set directly under leg, round, catlike, well-padded, strong arch over toes. Nails-Strong.\
American English Coonhound|Head|Theheadis broad and of moderate length.Expression-Kind, houndy.Eyes-Dark brown pigmentation, wide apart. Fault: Drooping lids.Ears-Hung rather low, reaching nearly at the end of the nose when drawn out. Fine texture, soft to the touch. Faults: Flat, stiff to the touch cocked.Skull-Very slightly domed, broad between the ears. Fault: Narrow skull. Stop-Prominent.Muzzle-Rather square, well proportioned in width with the skull. Flews covering the lower jaw from the side view. Planes-The stop forms a right angle with the upper line of the muzzle. A line from occiput to brow is a little above, and parallel to a line from eye to nose. Nose-Black. Faults: Pink or white pigmentation.Bite-Scissors bite with upper incisors fitting closely over the lower. Disqualifications: Undershot or overshot.\
American English Coonhound|Coat|Hard, protective hair. Medium length.\
American English Coonhound|Hindquarters|Angulation-in balance with the forequarters. Legs-Strong, straight when viewed from the rear. Thigh-muscular without being coarse.\
American English Coonhound|Fun Fact|The American English Coonhound continues to be bred almost exclusively as a hunting dog.\
American English Coonhound|Health|Early socialization of your American English Coonhound is paramount.\
American English Coonhound|Grooming|The short, harsh coat requires minimal upkeep.\
American English Coonhound|General Appearance|Renowned for speed and endurance, the American English Coonhound has a strong but racy body, a deep chest with plenty of lung room, a strong back, broad loin and well-defined musculature. A balanced, powerful dog with no exaggerated parts, the American English possesses the grace and attitude of a well-conditioned athlete.\
American English Coonhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American English Coonhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American English Coonhound|Exercise|Very Active; One whiff of raccoon, and this mild-mannered gentleman becomes Superhound.\
American English Coonhound|History|2011 - The American English Coonhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Swedish Vallhund|Body|Neck- Long, strongly muscled with good reach.Topline- Level when standing or moving.Body- Chest - Good depth. The ribcage is long with fairly well sprung ribs. Viewed from the front, the chest should be oval; from the side, elliptical. In a mature dog it should reach down two-fifths of the length of the forelegs and, when viewed from the side, the lowest point of the chest is immediately behind the back part of the foreleg.\
Swedish Vallhund|Forequarters|Shoulders-Strongly-muscled. Shoulder blades - Long and well laid back. Upper arms - Slightly shorter than the shoulder blades, set at an approximate 90 degree angle, close fitting to ribs, but still very mobile. A line perpendicular to the ground can be drawn from the tip of the shoulder blade through the elbow to the ground. Elbows - Move parallel to the body, turning neither in nor out. Forearms - When viewed from the front, slightly curved to give free action against the lower part of the chest; the pasterns and feet are parallel. Viewed from the side the forearms are straight. The height from ground to elbow is almost half the height from ground to withers. Legs - Well boned. Pasterns - Slightly sloping, elastic.\
Swedish Vallhund|Head|Rather long and clean. Viewed from above, theheadforms an even wedge from skull to tip of nose and is well filled-in under the eyes.Eyes- Medium size, oval in shape and dark brown with black eye rims.Ears- Medium size, pointed, prick. Set at the outer edge of the skull above a line drawn from the corner of the eye. Ear leather should be firm from base to tip, smooth-haired and mobile. The dog should make good use of them.\
Swedish Vallhund|Coat|Medium length hair, harsh; topcoat close and tight. Undercoat is soft and dense. Hair is short on the head and the foreparts of the legs and slightly longer on neck, chest and back parts of the hind legs. Dogs are to be shown in an untrimmed, natural state. Faults include wooly, curly, or open coats. Fluffy coats (longer hair on body and furnishings, with ear fringes) are a serious fault.\
Swedish Vallhund|Hindquarters|Angulation - To balance the front. Well angulated at stifle and hock. Legs - Well boned. Upper and lower thighs are strongly muscled. Lower thigh is slightly longer than the distance from hock to ground. Stifles - Well bent. Hocks (Metatarsal bones) - Perpendicular to the ground and viewed from the rear, parallel. Feet, toes and pads - Same as forefeet.\
Swedish Vallhund|Fun Fact|The Swedish Vallhund is also known as Vastgotaspets and Swedish Cattledog.\
Swedish Vallhund|Health|Swedish Vallhunds are generally a healthy breed.\
Swedish Vallhund|Grooming|Their tight, medium-length coat is easy to groom and requires occasional brushing.\
Swedish Vallhund|General Appearance|The Swedish Vallhund is a small, powerful, fearless, sturdily built Spitz herding dog. The correct relationship of height to length of body is 2:3. The SV has a wedge-shaped head, prick ears, and a close-fitting hard coat of medium length and sable coloring. The double coat and the characteristic "harness markings" are essential features of this breed. Tail may be natural (long, stub, or bob) or docked. The appearance of the Swedish Vallhund conveys intelligence, alertness and energy. Balance, outline, temperament and movement are of overriding importance.\
Swedish Vallhund|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Swedish Vallhunds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Swedish Vallhund|Exercise|Very Active; Energetic and eager, but they settle down nicely for cuddle time.\
Swedish Vallhund|History|2007 - The Swedish Vallhund was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Belgian Laekenois|Body|Neck- is round and rather outstretched, tapered from head to body, well muscled, with tight skin.Topline- the withers are slightly higher and slope into the back, which must be level, straight, and firm from withers to hip joints. Body - Chest - is not broad, but deep. The lowest point should reach the elbow, forming a smooth ascendant curve to the abdomen.\
Belgian Laekenois|Forequarters|Shoulders - are long and oblique, laid flat against the body, forming a sharp angle (approximately 90 degrees) with the upper arm. Legs - are straight, strong and parallel to each other with bone oval rather than round. Development (length and substance) should be well proportioned to the size of the dog. Pasterns - are short, strong and very slightly sloped.\
Belgian Laekenois|Head|Clean cut and strong, long without exaggeration and lean. The skull and muzzle are approximately the same length with at most a very slight advantage for the muzzle. Overall size should be in proportion to the body.Expression- should be intelligent and questioning, indicating alertness, attention and readiness for activity.Eyes- are brown, preferably dark brown, medium size, slightly almond shaped and not protruding.Ears- are triangular in shape, stiff, erect, and in proportion to the head in size. Base of the ear should not come below the center of the eye.\
Belgian Laekenois|Coat|The coat must have a texture which is rough and coarse giving a disorderly, tousled look. The coat should be severely penalized if silky or soft or lacking a double coat. The length of the hair should be approximately 2\'bd inches over the body. A beard must be present on the muzzle and hair on the head should not be in excess so as to hide the eyes nor the lines of the head and skull and make the head appear square or heavy. The tail should not form a plume.\
Belgian Laekenois|Hindquarters|Legs - are in length and substance well proportioned to the size of the dog with the bone oval rather than round. Legs are parallel to each other. Thighs - are broad and heavily muscled. The upper and lower thigh bones approximately parallel the shoulder blade and upper arm respectively, forming a relatively sharp angle at stifle joint. The angle at the hock is relatively sharp, although the Belgian Laekenois does not have extreme angulation.\
Belgian Laekenois|Fun Fact|The Belgian Laekenois has been assigned to the Herding Group designation.\
Belgian Laekenois|Health|Belgian Laekenois are generally a healthy breed.\
Belgian Laekenois|Grooming|The breed's wiry coat needs weekly combing and possibly some hand-stripping a few times a year.\
Belgian Laekenois|General Appearance|The first impression of the Belgian Laekenois is that of a square, well-balanced dog, elegant in appearance, with an exceedingly proud carriage of the head and neck. He is a strong, agile, well-muscled animal, alert and full of life. His whole conformation gives the impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness. The male dog is usually somewhat more impressive and grand than his female counterpart. The bitch should have a distinctly feminine look.\
Belgian Laekenois|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Belgian Laekenois is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Belgian Laekenois|Exercise|Laekenois will be deeply devoted to their families.\
Belgian Laekenois|History|1998 - The Belgian Laekenois was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Body|Theneckis very muscular, well developed and strong, showing great power of resistance. It is well set into the shoulders and moderate in length. Thetoplineis rather low at the shoulder, having a slight downward curve and a corresponding arch over the loins, with a very slight gradual drop from the top of the loins to the root of the tail. Both sides of the backbone well muscled. The outline is a continuous flow from the crest of the neck to the tip of the tail. Thebodyis long, strong and flexible. Ribs are well sprung and well rounded. The chest is well developed and well let down between the forelegs. The underline reflects the curves of the topline.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Forequarters|There should be sufficient layback ofshoulderto allow good reach in front; angulation in balance with hindquarters. Upper arms nearly equal in length to the shoulder blades, elbows lying close to the ribs and capable of moving freely. Theforelegsare short with good muscular development and ample bone, set wide apart. Feet point forward or very slightly outward. Pasterns nearly straight when viewed from the side. Bandy legs and fiddle front are objectionable.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Head|Theheadis strongly made and large, but in proportion to the dogs size. Muscles are well developed, especially those covering the foreface. Theexpressionshows great determination, intelligence and dignity. Theeyesare large, round, bright and full, but not protruding. They are set wide apart and low, and directly forward. Color, a rich dark hazel. Eye rims dark. Theearsare set well back, wide apart and low on the skull, hanging close to the cheek, with a very slight projection at the fold. The shape is broad at the base, coming almost to a point. The front edge comes almost straight down from base to tip; the tapering is primarily on the back edge. The cartilage and skin of the ear are rather thin. The ears length is from three to four inches.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Coat|This is a very important point: The hair should be about two inches long; the body coat is a mixture of about 2/3 hardish hair with about 1/3 soft hair, giving a sort of crisp texture. The hard is not wiry. The body coat is shortened by plucking. The coat is termed pily or pencilled, the effect of the natural intermingling of the two types of hair. The hair on the underpart of the body is softer than on the top.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Hindquarters|Thehind legsare a little longer than the forelegs and are set rather wide apart, but not spread out in an unnatural manner. The upper and lower thighs are rounded and muscular and approximately the same length; stifles angulated, in balance with forequarters. The hocks are well let down and rear pasterns perpendicular to the ground.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Fun Fact|Dandie Dinmonts were first recorded as a distinct breed around 1700.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Health|Dandie Dinmont Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Grooming|The Dandie does not shed.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|General Appearance|Originally bred to go to ground, the Dandie Dinmont Terrier is a long, low-stationed working terrier with a curved outline. The distinctive head with silken topknot is large but in proportion to the size of the dog. The dark eyes are large and round with a soft, wise expression. The sturdy, flexible body and scimitar shaped tail are covered with a rather crisp double coat, either mustard or pepper in color.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dandie Dinmont Terriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Not a frantic terrier, Dandies are fine with a couple of good walks a day and some vigorous play.\
Dandie Dinmont Terrier|History|1886 - The Dandie Dinmont Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Mudi|Health|Mudis are generally a healthy breed.\
Mudi|Fun Fact|The Mudi has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Mudi|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or comb.\
Mudi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Mudis is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Mudi|Exercise|The Mudi, like all dogs, needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Mudi|History|2004 - The Mudi was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Parson Russell Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders - Long and sloping, well laid back, cleanly cut at the withers. Point of shoulder sits in a plane behind the point of the prosternum. The shoulder blade and upper arm are of approximately the same length; forelegs are placed well under the dog. Elbows hang perpendicular to the body, working free of the sides. Legs are strong and straight with good bone. Joints turn neither in nor out. Pasterns firm and nearly straight. Feet - Round, cat-like, very compact, the pads thick and tough, the toes moderately arched pointing forward, turned neither in nor out. Fault - Hare feet.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Head|Head is strong and in good proportion to the rest of the body, so the appearance of balance is maintained.Expression-Keen, direct, full of life and intelligence.Eyes -Almond shaped, dark in color, moderate in size, not protruding. Dark rims are desirable, however where the coat surrounding the eye is white, the eye rim may be pink.Ears -Small "V"- shaped drop ears of moderate thickness carried forward close to the head with the tip so as to cover the orifice and pointing toward the eye. Fold is level with the top of the skull or slightly above. When alert, ear tips do not extend below the corner of the eye.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Coat|Smooth and Broken: Whether smooth or broken, a double coat of good sheen, naturally harsh, close and dense, straight with no suggestion of kink. There is a clear outline with only a hint of eyebrows and beard if natural to the coat. No sculptured furnishings. The terrier is shown in his natural appearance not excessively groomed. Sculpturing is to be severely penalized. Faults - Soft, silky, woolly, or curly topcoat. Lacking undercoat. Excessive grooming and sculpturing.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Hindquarters|Strong and muscular, smoothly molded, with good angulation and bend of stifle. Hocks near the ground, parallel, and driving in action. Feet as in front.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Fun Fact|Arthur Heinemann, who founded the Parson Jack Russell Terrier Club in 1914, drafted the first Jack Russell breed standard in 1904.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Health|Parson Russell Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Grooming|The Parson is a clean breed and does not need frequent bathing, but the broken coat may need to be hand stripped.\
Parson Russell Terrier|General Appearance|To function as a working terrier, he must possess certain characteristics: a ready attitude, alert and confident; balance in height and length; medium in size and bone, suggesting strength and endurance. Important to breed type is a natural appearance: harsh, weatherproof coat with a compact construction and clean silhouette. The coat is broken or smooth. He has a small, flexible chest to enable him to pursue his quarry underground and sufficient length of leg to follow the hounds.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Parson Russell Terriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Parson Russell Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; These are energetic, alert terriers who require plenty of exercise and attention.\
Parson Russell Terrier|History|1997 - The Parson Russell Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bichon Frise|Forequarters|Shoulders - The shoulder blade, upper arm and forearm are approximately equal in length. The shoulders are laid back to somewhat near a forty-five degree angle. The upper arm extends well back so the elbow is placed directly below the withers when viewed from the side. Legs are of medium bone; straight, with no bow or curve in the forearm or wrist. The elbows are held close to the body. The pasterns slope slightly from the vertical. The dewclaws may be removed. The feet are tight and round, resembling those of a cat and point directly forward, turning neither in nor out. Pads are black. Nails are kept short.\
Bichon Frise|Head|Expression- Soft, dark-eyed, inquisitive, alert.Eyesare round, black or dark brown and are set in the skull to look directly forward. An overly large or bulging eye is a fault as is an almond shaped, obliquely set eye. Halos, the black or very dark brown skin surrounding the eyes, are necessary as they accentuate the eye and enhance expression. The eye rims themselves must be black. Broken pigment, or total absence of pigment on the eye rims produce a blank and staring expression, which is a definite fault. Eyes of any color other than black or dark brown are a very serious fault and must be severely penalized.\
Bichon Frise|Coat|The texture of the coat is of utmost importance. The undercoat is soft and dense, the outercoat of a coarser and curlier texture. The combination of the two gives a soft but substantial feel to the touch which is similar to plush or velvet and when patted springs back. When bathed and brushed, it stands off the body, creating an overall powder puff appearance. A wiry coat is not desirable. A limp, silky coat, a coat that lies down, or a lack of undercoat are very serious faults.\
Bichon Frise|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are of medium bone, well angulated with muscular thighs and spaced moderately wide. The upper and lower thigh are nearly equal in length meeting at a well bent stifle joint. The leg from hock joint to foot pad is perpendicular to the ground. Dewclaws may be removed. Paws are tight and round with black pads.\
Bichon Frise|Fun Fact|The Bichon was developed in the Mediterranean area.\
Bichon Frise|Health|Bichon Frise are generally a healthy breed.\
Bichon Frise|Grooming|Because the Bichon coat is hair and not fur regular brushing is required to avoid matting.\
Bichon Frise|General Appearance|The Bichon Frise is a small, sturdy, white powder puff of a dog whose merry temperament is evidenced by his plumed tail carried jauntily over the back and his dark-eyed inquisitive expression.This is a breed that has no gross or incapacitating exaggerations and therefore there is no inherent reason for lack of balance or unsound movement.\'a0Any deviation from the ideal described in the standard should be penalized to the extent of the deviation. Structural faults common to all breeds are as undesirable in the Bichon Frise as in any other breed, even though such faults may not be specifically mentioned in the standard.\
Bichon Frise|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bichon Frise is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bichon Frise|Exercise|Bichons are bundles of energy so they\'92ll need daily play sessions and walks.\
Bichon Frise|History|1972 - The Bichon Frise was officially recognized by the AKC\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Body|Neck -Very strong and muscular, almost cylindrical. The skin is supple, ample and loose. The average circumference almost equals that of the head. There is a noticeable, slightly convex, furrow at the junction of the head and neck. The well-defined dewlap starts at the level of the throat forming folds down to the chest, without hanging exaggeratedly. The neck is very broad at its base, merging smoothly with the shoulders.Topline -Solid with a broad and muscular back, withers well marked, broad loin, rather short and solid. Chest - Powerful, long, deep, broad, and let down lower than the elbows. The forechest is broad and powerful with a lower line that is convex towards the bottom. The ribcage is deep and well sprung, but not barrel shaped. The circumference of the chest should be between 10 and 12 inches greater than the height at the withers. Underline - Curved, from the deep brisket to the firm abdomen. Slight to moderate tuck-up. Should be neither pendulous nor extreme. Croup - Moderately sloping down to the root of the tail.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Forequarters|Strong bone structure, legs very muscular. Shoulders - Powerful, prominent muscles. Slant of shoulder - blade is medium (about 45 degrees to the horizontal), with the angle of the scapular-humeral articulation being a little more than 90 degrees. Arms - Very muscular. Elbows - In line with the body. Should be neither too close to the chest nor turned out. Forearms - When viewed from the front, straight or inclining slightly inwards, especially in dogs with a very broad chest. When viewed in profile, vertical. Pasterns - Powerful. Slightly sloping when viewed in profile. When viewed from the front, may bend slightly outwards, thus compensating for the slight inclination of the forearm inwards.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Head|Theheadis large, angular, broad, and rather short. It is trapezium shaped when viewed from above and in front.Eyes -Oval and set wide apart. The space between the eyes is equal to about twice the length of the eye (eye opening). Frankexpression. The haw should not be visible. Color-hazel to dark brown for a dog with a black mask, lighter color tolerated but not sought after in dogs with either a brown mask or without a mask. Fault-Protruding eyes.Ears -The ear is small in proportion to the skull and of a slightly darker color than the coat. The front of the ears' base is slightly raised. They should fall back, but not hang limply. The front edge of the ear is close to the cheek when the dog is attentive. The tip is slightly rounded, and should not reach beyond the eye. Set rather high, at the level of the upper line of the skull, thus emphasizing the skull width even more.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Coat|Fine, short and soft to the touch. Skin - Thick and sufficiently loose fitting.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Hindquarters|Powerful legs with strong bone structure; well angulated. When viewed from behind, the hindquarters are parallel and vertical thus giving an impression of power. The hindquarters are not quite as broad as the forequarters. Thigh - Well developed and thick with visible muscles. Stifle - In a parallel plane to the median plane or slightly out. Second Thigh - Relatively short, well muscled. Hock Joint - Short and sinewy, with the angle of the hock joint moderately open. Hock - Strong, no dewclaws.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Fun Fact|The Dogue de Bordeaux is AKC's 158th breed.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Health|Dogue de Bordeaux are generally a healthy breed.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Grooming|New Dogue de Bordeaux owners should be prepared to deal with drool!\
Dogue de Bordeaux|General Appearance|The Dogue de Bordeaux is one of the most ancient French breeds. He is a typical brachycephalic molossoid type. He is a very powerful dog, with a very muscular body yet retaining a harmonious general outline. Built rather close to the ground, the distance from the deepest point of the chest to the ground is slightly less than the depth of the chest. A massive head with proper proportions and features is an important characteristic of the breed. His serious expression, stocky and athletic build, and self assurance make him very imposing. Bitches have identical characteristics, but less prominent.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dogue de Bordeaux is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|Exercise|Not Very Active; A couple of good walks a day and a backyard romp are sufficient.\
Dogue de Bordeaux|History|2008 - The Dogue de Bordeaux was officially recognized by the AKC\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|Health|Czechoslovakian Vlcaks are generally a healthy breed.\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|Fun Fact|The Czechoslovakian Vlcak has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|Grooming|The breed's short-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Czechoslovakian Vlcaks is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Czechoslovakian Vlcak|History|2001 - The Czechoslovakian Vlcak was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
American Water Spaniel|Forequarters|Shoulders sloping, clean and muscular. Legs medium in length, straight and well-boned but not so short as to handicap for field work or so heavy as to appear clumsy. Pasterns strong with no suggestion of weakness. Toes closely grouped, webbed and well-padded. Size of feet to harmonize with size of dog. Front dewclaws are permissible.\
American Water Spaniel|Head|Theheadmust be in proportion to the overall dog. Moderate in length.Expressionis alert, self-confident, attractive and intelligent. Medium sizeeyesset well apart, while slightly rounded, should not appear protruding or bulging. Lids tight, not drooping. Eye color can range from a light yellowish brown to brown, hazel or of dark tone to harmonize with coat. Disqualify yellow eyes. Yellow eyes are a bright color like that of lemon, not to be confused with the light yellowish brown.Earsset slightly above the eye line but not too high on the head, lobular, long and wide with leather extending to nose.Skullrather broad and full,stopmoderately defined, but not too pronounced.\
American Water Spaniel|Coat|Coat can range from marcel (uniform waves) to closely curled. The amount of waves or curls can vary from one area to another on the dog. It is important to have undercoat to provide sufficient density to be of protection against weather, water or punishing cover, yet not too coarse or too soft. The throat, neck and rear of the dog well-covered with hair. The ear well-covered with hair on both sides with ear canal evident upon inspection. Forehead covered with short smooth hair and without topknot. Tail covered with hair to tip with moderate feathering. Legs have moderate feathering with waves or curls to harmonize with coat of dog. Coat may be trimmed to present a well groomed appearance; the ears may be shaved; but neither is required.\
American Water Spaniel|Hindquarters|Well-developed hips and thighs with the whole rear assembly showing strength and drive. The hock joint slightly rounded, should not be small and sharp in contour, moderately angulated. Legs from hock joint to foot pad moderate in length, strong and straight with good bone structure. Hocks parallel.\
American Water Spaniel|Fun Fact|Prior to recognition by the AKC, the American Water Spaniel had been purely a working gun dog.\
American Water Spaniel|Health|The American Water Spaniel is a generally healthy breed.\
American Water Spaniel|Grooming|Moderate brushing and clipping maintain a healthy coat.\
American Water Spaniel|General Appearance|The American Water Spaniel was developed in the United States as an all-around hunting dog, bred to retrieve from skiff or canoes and work ground with relative ease. The American Water Spaniel is an active muscular dog, medium in size with a marcel to curly coat. Emphasis is placed on proper size and a symmetrical relationship of parts, texture of coat and color.\
American Water Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Water Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Water Spaniel|Exercise|Very Active; Upbeat AWS are outdoorsy athletes who love hunting and swimming\
American Water Spaniel|History|1940 - The American Water Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Lancashire Heeler|Fun Fact|The Lancashire Heeler has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Shih Tzu|Body|Short-coupled and sturdy with no waist or tuck-up. The Shih Tzu is slightly longer than tall. Fault - Legginess. Chest - Broad and deep with good spring-of-rib, however, not barrel-chested. Depth of ribcage should extend to just below elbow. Distance from elbow to withers is a little greater than from elbow to ground. Croup - Flat.\
Shih Tzu|Forequarters|Shoulders -Well-angulated, well laid-back, well laid-in, fitting smoothly into body.Legs- Straight, well-boned, muscular, set well-apart and under chest, with elbows set close to body.Pasterns- Strong, perpendicular.Dewclaws- May be removed.Feet- Firm, well-padded, point straight ahead.\
Shih Tzu|Head|Head- Round, broad, wide between eyes, its size in balance with the overall size of dog being neither too large nor too small. Fault: Narrow head, close-set eyes.Expression- Warm, sweet, wide-eyed, friendly and trusting. An overall well-balanced and pleasant expression supersedes the importance of individual parts.\'a0Care should be taken to look and examine well beyond the hair to determine if what is seen is the actual head and expression rather than an image created by grooming technique.\
Shih Tzu|Coat|Luxurious, double-coated, dense, long, and flowing. Slight wave permissible. Hair on top of head is tied up. Fault: Sparse coat, single coat, curly coat.Trimming- Feet, bottom of coat, and anus may be done for neatness and to facilitate movement. Fault - Excessive trimming.\
Shih Tzu|Hindquarters|Angulation of hindquarters should be in balance with forequarters.Legs- Well-boned, muscular, and straight when viewed from rear with well-bent stifles, not close set but in line with forequarters.Hocks- Well let down, perpendicular.Fault- Hyperextension of hocks.Dewclaws- May be removed.Feet- Firm, well-padded, point straight ahead.\
Shih Tzu|Fun Fact|The legend of the Shih Tzu has come to us from documents, paintings, and objets d'art dating from AD 624.\
Shih Tzu|Health|Shih Tzu are generally a long-lived and healthy breed.\
Shih Tzu|Grooming|Somewhat Active; Daily walks and indoor playtime will satisfy this small, short-legged companion.\
Shih Tzu|General Appearance|The Shih Tzu is a sturdy, lively, alert toy dog with long flowing double coat. Befitting his noble Chinese ancestry as a highly valued, prized companion and palace pet, the Shih Tzu is proud of bearing, has a distinctively arrogant carriage with head well up and tail curved over the back. Although there has always been considerable size variation, the Shih Tzu must be compact, solid, carrying good weight and substance. Even though a toy dog, the Shih Tzu must be subject to the same requirements of soundness and structure prescribed for all breeds, and any deviation from the ideal described in the standard should be penalized to the extent of the deviation.\
Shih Tzu|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Shih Tzu is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Shih Tzu|Exercise|As the sole purpose of the Shih Tzu is companion and house pet, he should be lively, alert, friendly and trusting.\
Shih Tzu|History|1969 - The Shih Tzu was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bolognese|Fun Fact|The Bolognese is also known as the Bichon Bolognese.\
Greyhound|Body|Neck:Long, muscular, without throatiness, slightly arched, and widening gradually into the shoulder.Shoulders:Placed as obliquely as possible, muscular without being loaded.Chest:Deep, and as wide as consistent with speed, fairly well-sprung ribs.Back:Muscular and broad.Loins:Good depth of muscle, well arched, well cut up in the flanks.Tail:Long, fine and tapering with a slight upward curve\
Greyhound|Forequarters|Perfectly straight, set well into the shoulders, neither turned in nor out, pasterns strong.\
Greyhound|Head|Long and narrow, fairly wide between the ears, scarcely perceptible stop, little or no development of nasal sinuses, good length of muzzle, which should be powerful without coarseness. Teeth very strong and even in front. Ears are\'a0mall and fine in texture, thrown back and folded, except when excited, when they are semi-pricked. Eyes are dark, bright, intelligent, indicating spirit.\
Greyhound|Coat|Short, smooth and firm in texture.\
Greyhound|Hindquarters|Long, very muscular and powerful, wide and well let down, well-bent stifles. Hocks well bent and rather close to ground, wide but straight fore and aft.\
Greyhound|Fun Fact|The Greyhound is the fastest breed of dog.\
Greyhound|Health|Greyhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Greyhound|Grooming|The Greyhound's short smooth coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming and the occasional bath.\
Greyhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for a Greyhound is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Greyhound|Exercise|To deny the Greyhound its heritage of free running is to deny its very reason for existence.\
Greyhound|History|1885 - The Greyhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Tornjak|Fun Fact|The Tornjak has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Norwich Terrier|Body|Neck, Topline, BodyNeckof medium length, strong and blending into well laid back shoulders. Leveltopline.Bodymoderately short. Compact and deep. Good width of chest. Well-sprungribsand shortloins.Tailmedium docked. The terrier's working origin requires that the tail be of sufficient length to grasp. Base level with topline; carried erect.\
Norwich Terrier|Forequarters|Well laid backshoulders. Elbows close to ribs. Short, powerfullegs, as straight as is consistent with the digging terrier. Pasterns firm.Feetround with thick pads. Nails black. The feet point forward when standing or moving.\
Norwich Terrier|Head|A slightly foxyexpression. Eyessmall, dark and oval shaped with black rims. Placed well apart with a bright and keen expression.Earsmedium size and erect. Set well apart with pointed tips. Upright when alert. Theskullis broad and slightly rounded with good width between the ears. Themuzzleis wedge shaped and strong. Its length is about one-third less than the measurement from the occiput to the well-definedstop. The jaw is clean and strong. Nose and lip pigment black. Tight-lipped with large teeth. A scissorbite.\
Norwich Terrier|Coat|Coat is described in words of the standard, \'93Hard, wiry, straight, lying close to the body with a definite undercoat. Traditionally a Norwich coat is hand stripped to maintain its texture and rich color.\'94\
Norwich Terrier|Hindquarters|Broad, strong and muscular with well-turnedstifles.Hockslow set and straight when viewed from the rear.Feetas in front.\
Norwich Terrier|Fun Fact|The Norwich Terrier's prick ears are a distinguishing characteristic.\
Norwich Terrier|Health|Norwich Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Norwich Terrier|Grooming|The wiry coat requires regular grooming, including brushing and stripping.\
Norwich Terrier|General Appearance|The Norwich Terrier, spirited and stocky with sensitive prick ears and a slightly foxy expression, is one of the smallest working terriers. This sturdy descendent of ratting companions, eager to dispatch small vermin alone or in a pack, has good bone and substance and an almost weatherproof coat. A hardy hunt terrier-honorable scars from fair wear and tear are acceptable.\
Norwich Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norwich Terriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Norwich Terrier|Exercise|Norwich Terriers are busy dogs who need to be exercised not just physically, but mentally.\
Norwich Terrier|History|1936 - The Norwich Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Plott|Body|Neck- Medium length and muscular. Clean and free of ponderous dewlap. Fault: Loose, wrinkled or folded skin.Topline- Gently sloping, slightly higher at the withers than at the hips. Fault: Roached.Body\'96Chest-Deep. Ribs - Deep, moderately wide, well sprung. Back - Well muscled, strong, level. Loin - Slightly arched.Tail- Root is slightly below level of topline. Rather long, carried free, well up, saber-like. Moderately heavy in appearance and strongly tapered. Sometimes typified by a slight brush.\
Plott|Forequarters|Shoulders - Clean, muscular and sloping, indicating speed and strength. Elbow - Squarely set. Forelegs - Straight, smooth, well muscled. Pasterns - Strong and erect. Feet - Firm, tight, well-padded and knuckled, with strong toes. Set directly under the leg. Disqualification - Splayed feet. Nails - Usually black, although shades of reddish brown matching the brindle body color are permissible and buckskin colored dogs have light red nails. May be white when portions of the feet are white.\
Plott|Head|Head is carried well up with skin fitting moderately tight. Faults - Folds, dewlap, skin stretched too tightly.Skull is moderately flat. Rounded at the crown with sufficient width between and above the eyes. Faults: Narrow-headed, square, oval or excessively domed.\
Plott|Coat|Smooth, fine, glossy, but thick enough to provide protection from wind and water. Rare specimens are double coated, with a short, soft, thick inner coat concealed by a longer, smoother and stiffer outer coat.\
Plott|Hindquarters|Angulation - Well bent at stifles and at the hocks. Hips - Smooth, round, and proportionally wide, indicating efficient propulsion. Legs - Long and muscular from hip to hock. From hock to pad short, strong and at right angles to the ground. Upper and second thigh - Powerful and well-muscled. Feet - Set back from under the body. Firm and tight. Toes - Strong.\
Plott|Fun Fact|The Plott is named after a family of German immigrants who moved to America, and the breed was created in America.\
Plott|Health|Plotts are generally a healthy breed.\
Plott|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance.\
Plott|General Appearance|A hunting hound of striking color that traditionally brings big game to bay or tree, the Plott is intelligent, alert and confident. Noted for stamina, endurance, agility, determination and aggressiveness when hunting, the powerful, well muscled, yet streamlined Plott combines courage with athletic ability.\
Plott|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Plotts is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Plott|Exercise|Very Active; Plotts are tough, relentless athletes requiring lots of exercise and outdoors time.\
Plott|History|2006 - The Plott was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Working Kelpie|Health|Working Kelpies are generally a healthy breed.\
Working Kelpie|Fun Fact|The Working Kelpie has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Working Kelpie|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Working Kelpie|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Working Kelpie is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Working Kelpie|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Working Kelpie|History|2014 - The Working Kelpie was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Body|Neckslightly arched, powerful, and muscular, moderate in length with more skin and fur than elsewhere on the body, forming a protective ruff. The dewlap should not be pendulous and excessive.Toplinewill appear level when gaiting. Back will be powerful, muscular, and level, with drop behind withers and gradual arch over loin, sloping slightly downward at the croup.Bodywell proportioned, functional, without exaggeration. Never fat or soft. Chest is deep (to the elbow) and well-sprung with a distinct tuck up at the loin.Tailshould be long and reaching to the hocks. Set on rather high. When relaxed, it is carried low with the end curled upwards. When alert, the tail is carried high, making a "wheel." Both low and wheel carriage are acceptable, when gaiting. "Wheel" carriage preferred. The tail will not necessarily uncurl totally.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Forequarters|Shoulders should be muscular and well developed, blades long, broad and sloping. Elbows should be neither in nor out. Forelegs should be relatively long, well-boned and set straight with strong pasterns. The feet are strong and compact with well-arched toes, oval in shape. They should have stout nails with pads thick and tough. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Head|Expressionshould be intelligent.Eyesare medium size, set apart, almond shaped and dark brown to light amber in color. Blue eyes or eyes of two different colors are a disqualification. Eye rims will be black or brown and without sag or looseness of haw. Incomplete pigment is a serious fault.Earsshould be set on no higher than the plane of the head. V-shaped, rounded apex, measuring about four inches at the base to six inches in length. The tip should be just long enough to reach the outside corner of the eyelid. Ears dropped to sides. Erect ears are a disqualification.Skullis large but in proportion to the body. There is a slight centerline furrow, fore and aft, from apparent stop to moderate occiput. Broader in dogs than in bitches.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Coat|Short (one inch minimum, not tight) to Rough (approximately 4 inches in length) with neck hair slightly longer. Somewhat longer and thicker at the neck and mane. A thick undercoat is common to all. Feathering may occur on the ear fringes, legs, breeching, and tail.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Hindquarters|Strong, with broad thighs and heavily muscled. Angulation at the stifle and hock are in proportion to the forequarters. As seen from behind, the legs are parallel. The feet are strong and compact with well-arched toes, oval in shape. Double dewclaws may exist. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Fun Fact|The Anatolian Shepherd Dog is a guard dog, not a herding dog.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Health|Given proper care and nourishment, an Anatolian is a basically healthy dog.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Grooming|Regular grooming is necessary for this large dog.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|General Appearance|Large, rugged, powerful and impressive, possessing great endurance and agility. Developed through a set of very demanding circumstances for a purely utilitarian purpose; he is a working guard dog without equal, with a unique ability to protect livestock. General impression - Appears bold, but calm, unless challenged. He possesses size, good bone, a well-muscled torso with a strong head. Reserve out of its territory is acceptable. Fluid movement and even temperament is desirable.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Anatolian Shepherd Dogs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|Exercise|Somewhat Active; These big guys live for long walks, romps in the yard, and something or someone to guard.\
Anatolian Shepherd Dog|History|1996 - The Anatolian Shepherd Dog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Pyrenean Mastiff|Health|Pyrenean Mastiffs are generally a healthy breed.\
Pyrenean Mastiff|Fun Fact|The Pyrenean Mastiff has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Pyrenean Mastiff|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Pyrenean Mastiff|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pyrenean Mastiff is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Pyrenean Mastiff|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Pyrenean Mastiff|History|2014 - The Pyrenean Mastiff was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Airedale Terrier|Head|The head should\'a0be well balanced with little apparent difference between the length of skull and foreface.The skull should be long and flat, not too broad between the ears and narrowing very slightly to the eyes. Scalp should be free from wrinkles, stop hardly visible and cheeks level and free from fullness.Ears should be V-shaped with carriage rather to the side of the head, not pointing to the eyes, small but not out of proportion to the size of the dog. The topline of the folded ear should be above the level of the skull.\
Airedale Terrier|Coat|Should be hard, dense and wiry, lying straight and close, covering the dog well over the body and legs. Some of the hardest are crinkling or just slightly waved. At the base of the hard very stiff hair should be a shorter growth of softer hair termed the undercoat.\
Airedale Terrier|Hindquarters| and TailHindquarters should be strong and muscular with no droop.The root of the tail should be set well up on the back. It should be carried gaily but not curled over the back. It should be of good strength and substance and of fair length.\
Airedale Terrier|Fun Fact|The late Hollywood actor John "Duke" Wayne had an Airedale named Little Duke.\
Airedale Terrier|Health|Daily exercise is vital to maintain your Airedale Terrier's health.\
Airedale Terrier|Grooming|Although relatively easy to maintain, the Airedale coat needs regular brushing and stripping.\
Airedale Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Airedale Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Airedale Terrier|Exercise|The Airedale has a sweet disposition, but when challenged, is not afraid to stand up for himself.\
Airedale Terrier|History|1888 - The Airedale Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Deutscher Wachtelhund|Fun Fact|The Deutscher Wachtelhund has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
Pekingese|Body|Neck, Body, Tail:Neck-It is very short and thick.Body-It is pear-shaped, compact and low to the ground. It is heavy in front with well-sprung ribs slung between the forelegs. The forechest is broad and full without a protruding breastbone. The underline rises from the deep chest to the lighter loin, thus forming a narrow waist. The topline is straight and the loin is short.\
Pekingese|Forequarters|They are short, thick and heavy-boned. The bones of the forelegs are moderately bowed between the pastern and elbow. The broad chest, wide set forelegs and the closer rear legs all contribute to the correct rolling gait. The distance from the point of the shoulder to the tip of the withers is approximately equal to the distance from the point of the shoulder to the elbow. Shoulders are well laid back and fit smoothly onto the body. The elbows are always close to the body. Front feet are turned out slightly when standing or moving. The pasterns slope gently.\
Pekingese|Head|Face-The topskull is massive, broad and flat and, when combined with the wide set eyes, cheekbones and broad lower jaw, forms the correctly shaped face. When viewed from the front, theskullis wider than deep, which contributes to the desired rectangular, envelope-shaped appearance of the head. In profile, the face is flat. When viewed from the side, the chin, nose leather and brow all lie in one plane, which slants very slightly backward from chin to forehead.Ears-They are heart-shaped, set on the front corners of the topskull, and lie flat against the head. The leather does not extend below the jaw. Correctly placed ears, with their heavy feathering and long fringing, frame the sides of the face and add to the appearance of a wide, rectangular head.\
Pekingese|Coat|It is a long, coarse-textured, straight, stand-off outer coat, with thick, soft undercoat. The coat forms a noticeable mane on the neck and shoulder area with the coat on the remainder of the body somewhat shorter in length. A long and profuse coat is desirable providing it does not obscure the shape of the body. Long feathering is found on toes, backs of the thighs and forelegs, with longer fringing on the ears and tail.\
Pekingese|Hindquarters|They are lighter in bone than the forequarters. There is moderate angulation of stifle and hock. When viewed from behind, the rear legs are reasonably close and parallel, and the feet point straight ahead when standing or moving.\
Pekingese|Fun Fact|Introduction of the Pekingese into the Western world occurred as a result of looting of the Imperial Palace at Peking by the British in 1860.\
Pekingese|Health|For 140 years Pekingese have been one of healthiest of all breeds, as they still are today.\
Pekingese|Grooming|Because of their long undercoats, Pekingese need at least an hourly brushing session per week.\
Pekingese|General Appearance|The Pekingese is a well-balanced, compact dog of Chinese origin with a heavy front and lighter hindquarters. Its temperament is one of directness, independence and individuality. Its image is lionlike, implying courage, dignity, boldness and self-esteem rather than daintiness or delicacy.\
Pekingese|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pekingese is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Pekingese|Exercise|Not Very Active; Pekes do well with just a couple of walks a day and some indoor playtime.\
Pekingese|History|1906 - The Pekingese was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Weimaraner|Body|The back should be moderate in length, set in a straight line, strong, and should slope slightly from the withers. The chest should be well developed and deep with shoulders well laid back. Ribs well sprung and long. Abdomen firmly held; moderately tucked-up flank. The brisket should extend to the elbow.\
Weimaraner|Head|Moderately long and aristocratic, with moderate stop and slight median line extending back over the forehead. Rather prominent occipital bone and trumpets well set back, beginning at the back of the eye sockets. Measurement from tip of nose to stop equals that from stop to occipital bone. The flews should be straight, delicate at the nostrils. Skin drawn tightly.Neckclean-cut and moderately long.Expressionkind, keen and intelligent.Ears-Long and lobular, slightly folded and set high. The ear when drawn snugly alongside the jaw should end approximately 2 inches from the point of the nose.Eyes-In shades of light amber, gray or blue-gray, set well enough apart to indicate good disposition and intelligence. When dilated under excitement the eyes may appear almost black.\
Weimaraner|Coat|Short, smooth and sleek, solid color, in shades of mouse-gray to silver-gray, usually blending to lighter shades on the head and ears. A small white marking on the chest is permitted, but should be penalized on any other portion of the body. White spots resulting from injury should not be penalized. A distinctly long coat is a disqualification. A distinctly blue or black coat is a disqualification.\
Weimaraner|Hindquarters|Well-angulated stifles and straight hocks. Musculation well developed.\
Weimaraner|Fun Fact|The Weimaraner is a fairly young breed, dating back to the early 19th century in Germany.\
Weimaraner|Health|Weimaraners are generally a healthy breed.\
Weimaraner|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Weimaraner|General Appearance|A medium-sized gray dog, with fine aristocratic features. He should present a picture of grace, speed, stamina, alertness and balance. Above all, the dog's conformation must indicate the ability to work with great speed and endurance in the field.\
Weimaraner|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Weimaraners is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Weimaraner|Exercise|Very Active; The Weim\'92s high energy and intelligence make training a must.\
Weimaraner|History|1943 - The Weimaraner was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Body|Neckshould be muscular, arched, and of sufficient length to carry the head proudly. Faults - Too short and thick. Back should be level and strongly muscled. Chest should be deep, the brisket reaching to point of elbow. The ribs should be well sprung, but flattened at their lower half to allow free play of the foreleg and shoulder. Abdomen moderately tucked up. Faults - Back too long, too short, swayed or roached. Barrel ribs. Slab-side. Chest narrow and/or too shallow. There should be a slight arch at the loins, and the croup should slope gradually to the rear. The hipbone (pelvis) should be set at a 30-degree angle to the spine.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Forequarters|From the withers, the shoulder blades should slope at a 45-degree angle forward and downward to the shoulder joints. At the withers they are separated only by the vertebra, but they must slope outward sufficiently to accommodate the desired spring of rib. The upper arm should join the shoulder blade at as nearly as possible a right angle. Elbow joint should be equidistant from the ground and from the withers. Forelegs straight viewed from all angles, muscular and clean, and of strong bone. Pasterns very strong, sinewy and flexible. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Head|Theheadshould be refined and its shape, when viewed from top or side, should be a long, blunt wedge tapering slightly from ears to nose.Expression- Contours and chiseling of the head, the shape, set and use of ears, the placement, shape and color of the eyes combine to produce expression. Normally the expression should be alert, gentle, intelligent and questioning. Toward strangers the eyes should show watchfulness and reserve, but no fear.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Coat|The coat should be double, the outer coat consisting of long, straight, harsh hair; the undercoat short, furry, and so dense as to give the entire coat its "standoff" quality. The hair on face, tips of ears and feet should be smooth. Mane and frill should be abundant, and particularly impressive in males. The forelegs well feathered, the hind legs heavily so, but smooth below the hock joint. Hair on tail profuse.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Hindquarters|The thigh should be broad and muscular. The thighbone should be set into the pelvis at a right angle corresponding to the angle of the shoulder blade and upper arm. Stifle bones join the thighbone and should be distinctly angled at the stifle joint. The overall length of the stifle should at least equal the length of the thighbone, and preferably should slightly exceed it. Hock joint should be clean-cut, angular, sinewy, with good bone and strong ligamentation. The hock (metatarsus) should be short and straight viewed from all angles.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Fun Fact|The Shetland Sheepdog, as its name implies, is essentially a working Collie in miniature.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Health|Shetland Sheepdogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Grooming|The breed's dense double coat requires regular maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming and the occasional bath.\
Shetland Sheepdog|General Appearance|The Shetland Sheepdog is a small, alert, rough-coated, longhaired working dog. He must be sound, agile and sturdy. The outline should be so symmetrical that no part appears out of proportion to the whole. Dogs should appear masculine; bitches feminine.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Shetland Sheepdogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Shetland Sheepdog|Exercise|Very Active; Shetland Sheepdogs enjoy a good run; tap into their herding heritage with tasked-based exercise.\
Shetland Sheepdog|History|1911 - The Shetland Sheepdog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Samoyed|Body|(a)Neck- Strong, well muscled, carried proudly erect, set on sloping shoulders to carry head with dignity when at attention. Neck should blend into shoulders with a graceful arch.(b) Chest- Should be deep, with ribs well sprung out from the spine and flattened at the sides to allow proper movement of the shoulders and freedom for the front legs. Should not be barrel-chested. Perfect depth of chest approximates the point of elbows, and the deepest part of the chest should be back of the forelegs-near the ninth rib. Heart and lung room are secured more by body depth than width.\
Samoyed|Forequarters|Legs should be parallel and straight to the pasterns. The pasterns should be strong, sturdy and straight, but flexible with some spring for proper let-down of feet. Because of depth of chest, legs should be moderately long. Length of leg from the ground to the elbow should be approximately 55 percent of the total height at the withers-a very short-legged dog is to be deprecated. Shoulders should be long and sloping, with a layback of 45 degrees and be firmly set. Out at the shoulders or out at the elbows should be penalized. The withers separation should be approximately 1 to 1\'bd inches.\
Samoyed|Head|Ears- Strong and thick, erect, triangular and slightly rounded at the tips; should not be large or pointed, nor should they be small and "bear-eared." Ears should conform to head size and the size of the dog; they should be set well apart but be within the border of the outer edge of the head; they should be mobile and well covered inside with hair; hair full and stand-off before the ears. Length of ear should be the same measurement as the distance from inner base of ear to outer corner of eye.\'a0Theexpression, referred to as "Samoyed expression," is very important and is indicated by sparkle of the eyes, animation and lighting up of the face when alert or intent on anything. Expression is made up of a combination of eyes, ears and mouth. The ears should be erect when alert; the mouth should be slightly curved up at the corners to form the "Samoyed smile."\
Samoyed|Coat|The Samoyed is a doublecoated dog. The body should be well covered with an undercoat of soft, short, thick, close wool with longer and harsh hair growing through it to form the outer coat, which stands straight out from the body and should be free from curl. The coat should form a ruff around the neck and shoulders, framing the head (more on males than on females). Quality of coat should be weather resistant and considered more than quantity. A droopy coat is undesirable. The coat should glisten with a silver sheen. The female does not usually carry as long a coat as most males and it is softer in texture.\
Samoyed|Hindquarters|Upper thighs should be well developed. Stifles well bent-approximately 45 degrees to the ground. Hocks should be well developed, sharply defined and set at approximately 30 percent of hip height. The hind legs should be parallel when viewed from the rear in a natural stance, strong, well developed, turning neither in nor out. Straight stifles are objectionable.\
Samoyed|Fun Fact|Of all modern breeds, the Samoyed is most nearly akin to the primitive dog - no admixture of wolf or fox runs in the Samoyed strain.\
Samoyed|Health|Samoyeds are generally a healthy breed.\
Samoyed|Grooming|The Samoyed coat can mat and needs to be brushed weekly, more often during shedding season.\
Samoyed|General Appearance|The Samoyed, being essentially a working dog, should present a picture of beauty, alertness and strength, with agility, dignity and grace. As his work lies in cold climates, his coat should be heavy and weather-resistant, well groomed, and of good quality rather than quantity. Males should be masculine in appearance and deportment without unwarranted aggressiveness; bitches should be feminine without weakness of structure or apparent softness of temperament. Bitches may be slightly longer in back than males. They should both give the appearance of being capable of great endurance but be free from coarseness. Because of the depth of chest required, the legs should be moderately long. General appearance should include movement and general conformation, indicating balance and good substance.\
Samoyed|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Samoyeds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Samoyed|Exercise|Very Active; Samoyed are energetic, curious, and independent; fenced-in exercise room is a must.\
Samoyed|History|1906 - The Samoyed was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Cairn Terrier|Body|Well-muscled, strong, activebodywith well-sprung, deep ribs, coupled to strong hindquarters, with a level back of medium length, giving an impression of strength and activity without heaviness.\
Cairn Terrier|Head|Skull- Broad in proportion to length with a decided stop and well furnished with hair on the top of the head, which may be somewhat softer than the body coat.Muzzle- Strong but not too long or heavy. Teeth-Large, mouth neither overshot nor undershot.\'a0Nose - Black.Eyes- Set wide apart, rather sunken, with shaggy eyebrows, medium in size, hazel or dark hazel in color, depending on body color, with a keen terrier expression.Ears- Small, pointed, well carried erectly, set wide apart on the side of the head. Free from long hairs.\
Cairn Terrier|Coat|Hard and weather-resistant. Must be double-coated with profuse harsh outer coat and short, soft, close furry undercoat.\
Cairn Terrier|Health|Cairns are sturdy and inherently healthy.\
Cairn Terrier|Fun Fact|The Cairn Terrier is alert, intelligent, active and long-lived.\
Cairn Terrier|Grooming|Carins are generally easy keepers, although weekly brushing and combing are recommended.\
Cairn Terrier|General Appearance|That of an active, game, hardy, small working terrier of the short-legged class; very free in its movements, strongly but not heavily built, standing well forward on its forelegs, deep in the ribs, well coupled with strong hindquarters and presenting a well-proportioned build with a medium length of back, having a hard, weather-resisting coat; head shorter and wider than any other terrier and well furnished with hair giving a general foxy expression.\
Cairn Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cairns is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Cairn Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Cairns are active, curious dogs who appreciate lots of long walks and places to explore.\
Cairn Terrier|History|1913 - The Cairn Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Body|Bodyis full with slight tuck up. The loins are broad and strong. The croup is long, broad and smoothly rounded to the tail insertion. Thetailis thick from root to tip, tapering slightly at the tip, reaching to the hocks, and carried down in repose. When alert and in movement, the tail may be carried higher and slightly curved upwards, but should not curl, or tilt over the back. The bones of the tail should feel straight.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Forequarters|The shoulders are long, sloping, strong and moderately laid back. They are flat and well-muscled. Forelegs are straight and strong. The pasterns slope very slightly, but are not weak. Feet are round and compact with well arched toes, and turn neither in nor out. The dewclaws may or may not be present.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Head|Expressionis animated and gentle. Theeyesare almond shaped and brown, dark brown preferred, medium sized, neither deep set nor protruding. Blue eye or eyes is a disqualification. Eyelids are close fitting and eyerims are black. Theearsare medium sized, set high, triangular in shape, gently rounded at the tip, and hang close to the head when in repose. When alert, the ears are brought forward and raised at the base. The top of the ear is level with the top of the skull.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Coat|Topcoat is dense, approximately 1-1/4 to 2 inches in length. Undercoat must be present and may be thick and sometimes showing, almost always present at neck but may be present throughout. Color of undercoat ranges from the preferred dark gray to light gray to tawny. Total absence of undercoat is undesirable and should be penalized.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Hindquarters|The thighs are broad, strong and muscular. The stifles are moderately bent and taper smoothly into the hocks. The hocks are well let down and straight when viewed from the rear. Feet are round and compact with well arched toes, and turn neither in nor out. Dewclaws should be removed.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Fun Fact|The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog is one of four types of Sennenhund breeds developed in Switzerland as a herding, guard, and utilitarian draft dog.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Health|Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Grooming|Swissy coats need to be brushed once or twice a week.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|General Appearance|The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog is a Draft and Drover breed and should structurally appear as such. It is a striking, tri-colored, large, powerful, confident dog of sturdy appearance. It is a heavy boned and well muscled dog which, in spite of its size and weight, is agile enough to perform the all-purpose farm duties of the mountainous regions of its origin.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Mellow around the house, but these blue-collar bruisers enjoy hard work.\
Greater Swiss Mountain Dog|History|1995 - The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Poodle|Body|Skin snug at throat. The neck rises from strong, smoothly muscled shoulders. Major fault: ewe neck. Thetoplineis level, neither sloping nor roached, from the highest point of the shoulder blade to the base of the tail, with the exception of a slight hollow just behind the shoulder.\'a0Chest is deep and moderately wide with well sprung ribs. The loin is short, broad and muscular. The tail is\'a0straight, set on high and carried up, docked of sufficient length to insure a balanced outline. Major fault: set low, curled, or carried over the back.\
Poodle|Forequarters|Strong, smoothly muscled shoulders. The shoulder blade is well laid back and approximately the same length as the upper foreleg. Major fault - steep shoulder.Forelegs - Straight and parallel when viewed from the front. When viewed from the side the elbow is directly below the highest point of the shoulder. The pasterns are strong. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet - The feet are rather small, oval in shape with toes well arched and cushioned on thick firm pads. Nails short but not excessively shortened. The feet turn neither in nor out.\
Poodle|Head|Moderately rounded, with a slight but definite stop. Cheekbones and muscles flat. Length from occiput to stop about the same as length of muzzle.\
Poodle|Coat|Curly: of naturally harsh texture, dense throughout. (2) Corded: hanging in tight even cords of varying length; longer on mane or body coat, head, and ears; shorter on puffs, bracelets, and pompons.(b) Clip- A Poodle under 12 months may be shown in the "Puppy" clip.\
Poodle|Hindquarters|The angulation of the hindquarters balances that of the forequarters. Hindlegs straight and parallel when viewed from the rear. Muscular with width in the region of the stifles which are well bent; femur and tibia are about equal in length; hock to heel short and perpendicular to the ground. When standing, the rear toes are only slightly behind the point of the rump.\
Poodle|Fun Fact|The denominations Standard, Miniature, and Toy are used to describe size only. All the Poodles are one breed, governed by the same standard.\
Poodle|Health|Poodles are generally a healthy breed.\
Poodle|Grooming|This breed\'92s hypoallergenic coat may reduce allergic reactions, but requires regular professional grooming.\
Poodle|General Appearance|That of a very active, intelligent and elegant-appearing dog, squarely built, well proportioned, moving soundly and carrying himself proudly. Properly clipped in the traditional fashion and carefully groomed, the Poodle has about him an air of distinction and dignity peculiar to himself.\
Poodle|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Poodles is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Poodle|Exercise|Poodles are enthusiastic walkers, runners, and swimmers.\
Poodle|History|1887 - The Poodle was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Belgian Malinois|Body|Theneckis round and of sufficient length to permit the proud carriage of the head. It should taper from the body to the head. Thetoplineis generally level. The withers are slightly higher and slope into the back which must be level, straight and firm from withers to hip joint. The croup is medium long, sloping gradually. Thebodyshould give the impression of power without bulkiness. The chest is not broad but is deep with the lowest point reaching the elbow. The underline forms a smooth ascendant curve from the lowest point of the chest to the abdomen. The abdomen is moderately developed, neither tucked up nor paunchy. The loin section, viewed from above, is relatively short, broad and strong, and blends smoothly into the back. Thetailis strong at the base, the bone reaching to the hock. In action it is raised with a curve, which is strongest towards the tip, without forming a hook. A cropped or stumped tail is a disqualification.\
Belgian Malinois|Forequarters|The forequarters are muscular without excessive bulkiness. The shoulder is long and oblique, laid flat against the body, forming a sharp angle with the upper arm. The legs are straight, strong, and parallel to each other. The bone is oval rather than round. Length and substance are well in proportion to the size of the dog. The pastern is of medium length, strong, and very slightly sloped. Dewclaws may be removed. The feet are round (cat footed) and well padded with the toes curved close together. The nails are strong and black except that they may be white to match white toe tips.\
Belgian Malinois|Head|Theheadis clean-cut and strong without heaviness; overall size is in proportion to the body. Theexpressionshould indicate alertness, attention and readiness for activity, and the gaze is intelligent and questioning. Theeyesare brown, preferably dark brown, medium size, slightly almond shaped, not protruding. Eye rims are black. Theearsapproach the shape of an equilateral triangle and are stiff, erect, and in proportion to the head in size. The outer corner of the ear should not come below the center of the eye. Ears hanging as on a hound, or semi-prick ears are disqualifications.\
Belgian Malinois|Coat|The coat should be comparatively short, straight, hard enough to be weather resistant, with dense undercoat. It should be very short on the head, ears, and lower legs. The hair is somewhat longer around the neck where it forms a collarette, and on the tail and backs of the thighs. The coat should conform to the body without standing out or hanging down.\
Belgian Malinois|Hindquarters|Angulation of the hindquarters is in balance with the forequarters; the angle at the hock is relatively sharp, although the Belgian Malinois should not have extreme angulation. The upper and lower thigh bones should approximately parallel the shoulder blade and upper arm respectively. The legs are in proportion to the size of the dog; oval bone rather than round. Legs are parallel to each other. The thighs should be well muscled. Dewclaws, if any, should be removed. Metatarsi are of medium length, strong, and slightly sloped. The hind feet may be slightly elongated, with toes curved close together and well padded. Nails are strong and black except that they may be white to match white toe tips.\
Belgian Malinois|Fun Fact|The Malinois was bred basically around the city of Malines from whence the name is derived.\
Belgian Malinois|Health|Belgian Malinois are generally a healthy breed.\
Belgian Malinois|Grooming|This breed has a double coat that will require regular brushing to keep it in good condition.\
Belgian Malinois|General Appearance|The Belgian Malinois is a well balanced, square dog, elegant in appearance with an exceedingly proud carriage of the head and neck. The dog is strong, agile, well muscled, alert, and full of life. He stands squarely on all fours and viewed from the side, the topline, forelegs, and hind legs closely approximate a square. The whole conformation gives the impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness. The male is usually somewhat more impressive and grand than his female counterpart, which has a distinctly feminine look.\
Belgian Malinois|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Belgian Malinois is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Belgian Malinois|Exercise|Very Active; A high-energy worker who demands plenty of exercise.\
Belgian Malinois|History|1959 - The Belgian Malinois was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Body|Neckmedium in length, clean and strong, not throaty. Carried proudly, it gradually widens, blending smoothly into the body.Backstrong and level.Bodycompact; relatively short coupled.\'a0Chest\'a0is deep. Ribs\'a0are well sprung but without roundness.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0well laid back, clean and smooth; well knit.\'a0Forelegs\'a0straight and well boned. All dewclaws should be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0are round and compact with good depth of pad.\'a0Pads\'a0black.\'a0Nails\'a0dark.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Head|Well balanced and in proportion to the body. Rectangular in appearance; moderately long. Powerful with no suggestion of coarseness.Eyesdark reddish brown or brown, medium in size, slightly almond shaped and set fairly wide apart. Eye rims black.\'a0Major Fault - Anything approaching a yellow eye.Earssmall to medium in size, breaking level with the skull and dropping slightly forward, the inside edge of the ear lying next to the cheek and pointing to the ground rather than to the eye. A hound ear or a high-breaking ear is not typical and should be\'a0severely penalized.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Coat|A distinguishing characteristic of the breed which sets the dog apart from all other terriers. An abundant single coat covering the entire body, legs and head; coat on the latter falls forward to shade the eyes. Texture soft and silky with a gentle wave. In both puppies and adolescents, the mature wavy coat is generally not yet evident.\'a0Major Faults - Woolly or harsh, crisp or cottony, frizzy, kinky or standaway coat; in the adult, a straight coat is also objectionable.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Hindquarters|Hind\'a0legs well developed with well bent\'a0stifles\'a0turning neither in nor out;\'a0hocks\'a0well let down and parallel to each other. All\'a0dewclaws\'a0should be removed. The presence of dewclaws on the hind legs should be penalized.\'a0Feet\'a0are round and compact with good depth of pad.\'a0Pads\'a0black.\'a0Nails\'a0dark.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Fun Fact|The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier is a native of Ireland.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Health|Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Grooming|The Wheaten is single coated and sheds minimally, but needs regular grooming to keep its coat mat free.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|General Appearance|The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier is a medium-sized, hardy, well balanced sporting terrier, square in outline. He is distinguished by his soft, silky, gently waving coat of warm wheaten color and his particularly steady disposition. The breed requires moderation both in structure and presentation, and any exaggerations are to be shunned. He should present the overall appearance of an alert and happy animal, graceful, strong and well coordinated.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Soft Coated Wheaten Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Exuberant and fun-loving, but not as scrappy as the typical terrier.\
Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier|History|1973 - The Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Old English Sheepdog|Body|Neck- Fairly long and arched gracefully.Topline- Stands lower at the withers than at the loin with no indication of softness or weakness.Attention is particularly called to this topline as it is a distinguishing characteristic of the breed.Body- Rather short and very compact, broader at the rump than at the shoulders, ribs well sprung and brisket deep and capacious. Neither slab-sided nor barrel-chested. The loin is very stout and gently arched.\
Old English Sheepdog|Forequarters|Shoulders well laid back and narrow at the points. The forelegs dead straight with plenty of bone. The measurements from the withers to the elbow and from the elbow to the ground are practically the same.\
Old English Sheepdog|Head|A most intelligent expression.Eyes- Brown, blue or one of each. If brown, very dark is preferred. If blue, a pearl, china or wall-eye is considered typical. An amber or yellow eye is most objectionable.Ears- Medium sized and carried flat to the side of the head.Skull- Capacious and rather squarely formed giving plenty of room for brain power. The parts over the eyes (supra-orbital ridges) are well arched. The whole well covered with hair. Stop - Well defined. Jaw - Fairly long, strong, square and truncated.Attention is particularly called to the above properties as a long, narrow head or snipy muzzle is a deformity.Nose - Always black, large and capacious. Teeth - Strong, large and evenly placed. Thebiteis level or tight scissors.\
Old English Sheepdog|Coat|Profuse, but not so excessive as to give the impression of the dog being overly fat, and of a good hard texture; not straight, but shaggy and free from curl.Quality and texture of coat to be considered above mere profuseness.Softness or flatness of coat to be considered a fault. The undercoat is a waterproof pile when not removed by grooming or season. Ears coated moderately. The whole skull well covered with hair. The neck well coated with hair. The forelegs well coated all around. The hams densely coated with a thick, long jacket in excess of any other part. Neither the natural outline nor the natural texture of the coat may be changed by any artificial means except that the feet and rear may be trimmed for cleanliness.\
Old English Sheepdog|Hindquarters|Round and muscular with well let down hocks. When standing, the metatarsus are perpendicular to the ground when viewed from any angle.\
Old English Sheepdog|Fun Fact|In all probability, the Old English Sheepdog was developed in the west of England, in the counties of Devon and Somerset and the Duchy of Cornwall.\
Old English Sheepdog|Health|Old English Sheepdog are generally a healthy breed.\
Old English Sheepdog|Grooming|Beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush they need the occasional bath to keep them clean.\
Old English Sheepdog|General Appearance|A strong, compact, square, balanced dog. Taking him all around, he is profusely,but not excessively coated, thickset, muscular and able-bodied. These qualities, combined with his agility, fit him for the demanding tasks required of a shepherd's or drover's dog. Therefore,soundness is of the greatest importance. His bark is loud with a distinctive "pot-casse" ring in it.\
Old English Sheepdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Old English Sheepdogs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Old English Sheepdog|Exercise|Somewhat Active; A mellow housedog, but the OES is a big, agile dog who likes exploring, long walks, and a good gallop.\
Old English Sheepdog|History|1888 - The Old English Sheepdog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Great Pyrenees|Body|Neck- Strongly muscled and of medium length, with minimal dewlap.Topline- The backline is level.Body- The chest is moderately broad. The rib cage is well sprung, oval in shape, and of sufficient depth to reach the elbows. Back and loin are broad and strongly coupled with some tuck-up. The croup is gently sloping with the tail set on just below the level of the back.Tail- The tailbones are of sufficient length to reach the hock. The tail is well plumed, carried low in repose and may be carried over the back, "making the wheel," when aroused. When present, a "shepherd's crook" at the end of the tail accentuates the plume. When gaiting, the tail may be carried either over the back or low. Both carriages are equally correct.\'a0Fault - Barrel ribs.\
Great Pyrenees|Forequarters|Shoulders - The shoulders are well laid back, well muscled, and lie close to the body. The upper arm meets the shoulder blade at approximately a right angle. The upper arm angles backward from the point of the shoulder to the elbow and is never perpendicular to the ground. The length of the shoulder blade and the upper arm is approximately equal. The height from the ground to the elbow appears approximately equal to the height from the elbow to the withers.\'a0Forelegs - The legs are of sufficient bone and muscle to provide a balance with the frame. The elbows are close to the body and point directly to the rear when standing and gaiting. The forelegs, when viewed from the side, are located directly under the withers and are straight and vertical to the ground.\
Great Pyrenees|Head|Correct head and expression are essential to the breed. The head is not heavy in proportion to the size of the dog. It is wedge shaped with a slightly rounded crown.Expression- The expression is elegant, intelligent and contemplative.Eyes- Medium sized, almond shaped, set slightly obliquely, rich dark brown. Eyelids are close fitting with black rims.Ears- Small to medium in size, V-shaped with rounded tips, set on at eye level, normally carried low, flat, and close to the head. There is a characteristic meeting of the hair of the upper and lower face which forms a line from the outer corner of the eye to the base of the ear.\
Great Pyrenees|Coat|The weather resistant double coat consists of a long, flat, thick, outer coat of coarse hair, straight or slightly undulating, and lying over a dense, fine, woolly undercoat. The coat is more profuse about the neck and shoulders where it forms a ruff or mane which is more pronounced in males. Longer hair on the tail forms a plume. There is feathering along the back of the front legs and along the back of the thighs, giving a "pantaloon" effect. The hair on the face and ears is shorter and of finer texture. Correctness of coat is more important than abundance of coat.\'a0Faults - Curly coat. Stand-off coat (Samoyed type).\
Great Pyrenees|Hindquarters|The angulation of the hindquarters is similar in degree to that of the forequarters.\'a0Thighs - Strongly muscular upper thighs extend from the pelvis at right angles. The upper thigh is the same length as the lower thigh, creating moderate stifle joint angulation when viewed in profile. The rear pastern (metatarsus) is of medium length and perpendicular to the ground as the dog stands naturally. This produces a moderate degree of angulation in the hock joint, when viewed from the side. The hindquarters from the hip to the rear pastern are straight and parallel, as viewed from the rear. The rear legs are of sufficient bone and muscle to provide a balance with the frame.\
Great Pyrenees|Fun Fact|The Great Pyrenees was adopted as a French court dog in the 17th century.\
Great Pyrenees|Health|Great Pyrenees are generally a healthy breed.\
Great Pyrenees|Grooming|The Great Pyrenees\'92 coat needs regular weekly grooming with a brush and comb.\
Great Pyrenees|General Appearance|The Great Pyrenees dog conveys the distinct impression of elegance and unsurpassed beauty combined with great overall size and majesty. He has a white or principally white coat that may contain markings of badger, gray, or varying shades of tan. He possesses a keen intelligence and a kindly, while regal, expression. Exhibiting a unique elegance of bearing and movement, his soundness and coordination show unmistakably the purpose for which he has been bred, the strenuous work of guarding the flocks in all kinds of weather on the steep mountain slopes of the Pyrenees.\
Great Pyrenees|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Great Pyrenees is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Great Pyrenees|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Not a particularly active dog, but these big guys need their exercise.\
Great Pyrenees|History|1933 - The Great Pyrenees was first recognized by the AKC\
French Spaniel|Fun Fact|The French Spaniel has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
Broholmer|Health|Broholmers are generally a healthy breed.\
Broholmer|Fun Fact|The Broholmer has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Broholmer|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Broholmer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Broholmers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Broholmer|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Broholmer|History|2013 - The Broholmer was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Boston Terrier|Forequarters|The shoulders are sloping and well laid back, which allows for the Boston Terrier's stylish movement. The elbows stand neither in nor out. The forelegs are set moderately wide apart and on a line with the upper tip of the shoulder blades. The forelegs are straight in bone with short, strong pasterns. The dewclaws may be removed. The feet are small, round and compact, turned neither in nor out, with well arched toes and short nails. Faults - Legs lacking in substance; splay feet.\
Boston Terrier|Head|Theskullis square, flat on top, free from wrinkles, cheeks flat, brow abrupt and the stop well defined. The ideal Boston Terrierexpressionis alert and kind, indicating a high degree of intelligence. This is a most important characteristic of the breed. Theeyesare wide apart, large and round and dark in color. The eyes are set square in the skull and the outside corners are on a line with the cheeks as viewed from the front.Disqualify - Eyes blue in color or any trace of blue. Theearsare small, carried erect, either natural or cropped to conform to the shape of the head and situated as near to the corners of the skull as possible.\
Boston Terrier|Coat|The coat is short, smooth, bright and fine in texture.\
Boston Terrier|Hindquarters|The thighs are strong and well muscled, bent at the stifles and set true. The hocks are short to the feet, turning neither in nor out, with a well defined hock joint. The feet are small and compact with short nails. Fault - Straight in stifle.\
Boston Terrier|Fun Fact|The Boston Terrier is a native American breed.\
Boston Terrier|Health|Boston Terriers are sturdy, generally healthy dogs\
Boston Terrier|Grooming|His short coat only requires minimal grooming.\
Boston Terrier|General Appearance|The Boston Terrier is a lively, highly intelligent, smooth coated, short-headed, compactly built, short-tailed, well balanced dog, brindle, seal or black in color and evenly marked with white. The head is in proportion to the size of the dog and the expression indicates a high degree of intelligence.The body is rather short and well knit, the limbs strong and neatly turned, the tail is short and no feature is so prominent that the dog appears badly proportioned. The dog conveys an impression of determination, strength and activity, with style of a high order; carriage easy and graceful.\
Boston Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Boston Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Boston Terrier|Exercise|Their many charms have made Boston Terriers a true American favorite for more than a hundred years.\
Boston Terrier|History|1893 - The Boston Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Akita|Body|Thick and muscular; comparatively short, widening gradually toward shoulders. A pronounced crest blends in with base of skull.Body- Longer than high, as to 10 is to 9 in males; 11 to 9 in bitches. Measurement from the point of the sternum to the point of buttocks. Chest wide and deep; reaching down to the elbow, the depth of the body at the elbow equals half the height of the dog at the withers. Ribs well sprung, brisket well developed. Level back with firmly-muscled loin and moderate tuck-up. Skin pliant but not loose. Serious Faults - Light bone, rangy body.\
Akita|Forequarters|Shoulders strong and powerful with moderate layback. Forelegs heavy-boned and straight as viewed from front. Angle of pastern 15 degrees forward from vertical. Faults - Elbows in or out, loose shoulders.\
Akita|Head|Massive but in balance with body; free of wrinkle when at ease.Skullflat between ears and broad; jaws broad and powerful with minimal dewlap.Headforms a blunt triangle when viewed from above. Fault - Narrow or snipey head.Ears- The ears of the Akita are characteristic of the breed. They are strongly erect and small in relation to rest of head. If ear is folded forward for measuring length, tip will touch upper eye rim. Ears are triangular, slightly rounded at tip, wide at base, set wide on head but not too low, and carried slightly forward over eyes in line with back of neck. Disqualification - Drop or broken ears.Eyes- Dark brown, small, deep-set and triangular in shape. Eye rims black and tight. Lips and Tongue - Lips black and not pendulous; tongue pink. Teeth - Strong with scissorsbitepreferred, but level bite acceptable. Disqualification - Noticeably undershot or overshot.\
Akita|Coat|Double-coated. Undercoat thick, soft, dense and shorter than outer coat. Outer coat straight, harsh and standing somewhat off body. Hair on head, legs and ears short. Length of hair at withers and rump approximately two inches, which is slightly longer than on rest of body, except tail, where coat is longest and most profuse. Fault-Any indication of ruff or feathering\
Akita|Hindquarters|Width, muscular development and bone comparable to forequarters. Upper thighs well developed. Stifle moderately bent and hocks well let down, turning neither in nor out. Dewclaws - On front legs generally not removed; dewclaws on hind legs generally removed. Feet - Cat feet, well knuckled up with thick pads. Feet straight ahead.\
Akita|Fun Fact|The Akita is one of seven breeds designated as a national monument in his native country of Japan.\
Akita|Health|Working with responsible  breeders, the common health challenges of Akitas listed below may be prevented.\
Akita|Grooming|Akitas are cat-like in their love of grooming to keep themselves clean.\
Akita|General Appearance|Large, powerful, alert, with much substance and heavy bone. The broad head, forming a blunt triangle, with deep muzzle, small eyes and erect ears carried forward in line with back of neck, is characteristic of the breed. The large, curled tail, balancing the broad head, is also characteristic of the breed.\
Akita|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Akitas is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Akita|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Not a hyper breed, but these big guys enjoy regular exercise.\
Akita|History|1972 - The Akita was officially recognized by the AKC\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Body|Cleanly boned, the body is rather long and well supported, the loin is short, the croup is rather short and oblique, flank well tucked up, ribs slightly rounded and extending well to the rear. The chest is of medium development and descends only to the elbow.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Forequarters|Shoulder blades are rather long, of moderate angulation. Upper Arm - Oblique and moderately long. Forelegs - Light-boned, sinewy, rather finely made. Rough-Faced: Fringed with rather long hair in long-haired dogs, rather shorter hair in the demi-long haired dog. Smooth-Faced: The hair is short on the fronts of the legs, and may be furnished with feathering along the back of the leg from elbow to pastern. Pasterns - Strong, sloping. Dewclaws - The front legs should carry single dewclaws, not to be removed. Feet - Oval shaped. The foot of the Smooth-Faced dog is a little shorter and more cupped than in the Rough-Faced dog. The pads of the feet are dark. Nails - The nails are hard and dark.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Head|Theheadis generally triangular in shape, rather small in proportion to the size of the dog, well-filled-in under the eyes; the top skull is nearly flat.Expression- Intelligent, alert, and cunning, even a little mischievous.Eyes- The eyes are almond-shaped, open, and very expressive. They are neither prominent nor deeply set. They are dark brown in color. Partially or completely blue eyes are acceptable only in merles. Eye rims are black no matter what color the coat. Disqualification - Missing pigment on the eye rims. Disqualification - Blue eyes in a dog of coat color other than merle.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Coat|Coat quality is more important than abundance. Rough-Faced - The Rough-Faced dog's coat can be of long or demi-long hair, almost flat or slightly wavy. Demi-long dogs have culottes on the rump, while the long-haired dogs are often more heavily furnished with woollier hair that may cord, especially on the elbows, croup, and thighs, but never on the head. The texture is harsh, being halfway between the hair of a goat and the wool of a sheep. The undercoat is minimal. The hair on the end of the muzzle and the chin must be naturally short and it lengthens as the muzzle widens toward the skull. The longer hair on the sides of the muzzle and cheeks is swept back giving a windblown look.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Hindquarters|Hind Legs - The stifle is well bent. The upper thigh is rather short. The lower thigh is long. The hocks are clean, well let down, well angulated and often close together. When viewed from the rear, the legs present parallel columns of support from hip to hock. Rough-Faced dogs with demi-long coat are generally not as heavily furnished in the rear as the long-haired dogs. Feet - The foot of the Smooth-Faced dog is a little shorter and more cupped than in the Rough-Faced dog.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Fun Fact|The Pyrenean Shepherd is AKC's 161st breed.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Health|Pyrenean Shepherds are generally a healthy breed.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Grooming|The Pyrenean Shepherd coat does not require much maintenance beyond a thorough brushing every few weeks.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|General Appearance|A small, sinewy, lean, lively dog whose sparkling personality and quicksilver intelligence are reflected in the vibrant expression of his unique triangular head and windswept face. A superb athlete, his beautiful, flowing gait "shaves the earth." Uncoiffed, light-boned and built as a horizontal rectangle, his high energy and intelligent, cunning, mischievous attitude show that he is always on alert, suspicious, ready for action. An ardent herder of all kinds of livestock, his vigilant attitude and great vivacity of movement give this little dog a highly singular gait and appearance, characteristic of no other breed.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pyrenean Shepherds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|Exercise|This breed will thrive in the home of an active family.\
Pyrenean Shepherd|History|2009 - The Pyrenean Shepherd was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Body|Theneckshould be very muscular, long, and arched; tapering from the shoulders to the head, it should be free from loose skin. Thebackshould be short and strong with a slight arch over the loin. Behind the shoulders there should be no slackness or dip at the withers. Thebodyshould be well rounded with marked spring of rib. The back ribs deep. Thechestshould be broad when viewed from in front. There should be great depth from withers to brisket, so that the latter is nearer to the ground than the belly. Theunderline, from the brisket to the belly, should form a graceful upward curve. Thetailshould be short, set on low, fine, and should be carried horizontally. It should be thick where it joins the body, and should taper to a fine point.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Forequarters|Theshouldersshould be strong and muscular, but without heaviness. The shoulder blades should be wide and flat and there should be a very pronounced backward slope from the bottom edge of the blade to the top edge. The legs should be big boned but not to the point of coarseness. Theforelegsshould be of moderate length, perfectly straight, and the dog must stand firmly up on them. Theelbowsmust turn neither in nor out, and the pasterns should be strong and upright.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Head|Theheadshould be long, strong and deep, right to the end of the muzzle, but not coarse. Thefull faceshould be oval in outline and be filled completely up, giving the impression of fullness with a surface devoid of hollows or indentations, i.e., egg shaped. Theprofileshould curve gently downwards from the top of the skull to the tip of the nose. Theforeheadshould be flat across from ear to ear. The distance from the tip of the nose to the eyes should be perceptibly greater than that from the eyes to the top of the skull. Theunderjawshould be deep and well defined.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Coat|Thecoatshould be short, flat and harsh to the touch with a fine gloss. The dog's skin should fit tightly.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Hindquarters|Thehind legsshould be parallel when viewed from behind. Thethighsare very muscular with hocks well let down. The stifle joint is well bent with a well developed second thigh. Thehind pasternsshould be short and upright.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Fun Fact|The Miniature Bull Terrier is AKC's 133rd breed.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Health|Miniature Bull Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Grooming|This easy to groom breed requires only occasional brushing.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|General Appearance| and SizeThe Miniature Bull Terrier must be strongly built, symmetrical and active, with a keen, determined and intelligent expression. He should be full of fire, having a courageous, even temperament and be amenable to discipline.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Miniature Bull Terrier is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|Exercise|The strongly built, active and determined Miniature Bull Terrier is often described as clownish and fearless.\
Miniature Bull Terrier|History|1991 - The Miniature Bull Terrier was officially recognized by AKC.\
Pug|Body|Neck, Topline, Body:Theneckis slightly arched. It is strong, thick, and with enough length to carry the head proudly. The shortbackis level from the withers to the high tail set. Thebodyis short and cobby, wide in chest and well ribbed up. Thetailis curled as tightly as possible over the hip. The double curl is perfection.\
Pug|Forequarters|Forequarters:The legs are very strong, straight, of moderate length, and are set well under. The elbows should be directly under the withers when viewed from the side. The shoulders are moderately laid back. The pasterns are strong, neither steep nor down. The feet are neither so long as the foot of the hare, nor so round as that of the cat; well split-up toes, and the nails black. Dewclaws are generally removed.\
Pug|Head|Head:Theheadis large, massive, round - not apple-headed, with no indentation of theskull. Theeyesare dark in color, very large, bold and prominent, globular in shape, soft and solicitous inexpression, very lustrous, and, when excited, full of fire. Theearsare thin, small, soft, like black velvet. There are two kinds - the "rose" and the "button." Preference is given to the latter. The wrinkles are large and deep. The muzzle is short, blunt, square, but not upfaced.Bite- A Pug's bite should be very slightly undershot.\
Pug|Coat|The coat is fine, smooth, soft, short and glossy, neither hard nor woolly.\
Pug|Hindquarters|Hindquarters:The strong, powerful hindquarters have moderate bend of stifle and short hocks perpendicular to the ground. The legs are parallel when viewed from behind. The hindquarters are in balance with the forequarters. The thighs and buttocks are full and muscular. Feet as in front.\
Pug|Fun Fact|The Pug is one of the oldest breeds of dog; has flourished since before 400 BC.\
Pug|Health|Pugs are generally a healthy breed.\
Pug|Grooming|The Pug sheds, but its short coat requires little grooming.\
Pug|General Appearance|Symmetry and general appearance are decidedly square and cobby. A lean, leggy Pug and a dog with short legs and a long body are equally objectionable.\
Pug|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pugs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Pug|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Pugs are not exactly natural athletes, but they do have strong legs and endless curiosity\'97exercise both\
Pug|History|1885 - The Pug was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Belgian Tervuren|Forequarters|Shoulderslong, laid back 45 degrees, flat against the body, forming a right angle with the upper arm. Top of the shoulder blades roughly two thumbs width apart. Upper armsshould move in a direction exactly parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body. Forearmslong and well-muscled.\'a0 Legsstraight and parallel, perpendicular to the ground. Bone oval rather than round. Pasternsshort and strong, slightly sloped. Dewclaws may be removed.\'a0 Feetrounded, cat footed, turning neither in nor out, toes curved close together, well-padded,strong nails.\
Belgian Tervuren|Head|Well-chiseled, skin taut, long without exaggeration.Expressionintelligent and questioning, indicating alertness, attention and readiness for action.Eyesdark brown, medium-size, slightly almond shape, not protruding. Light, yellow or round eyes are a fault.Earstriangular in shape, well-cupped, stiff, erect; height equal to width at base. Set high, the base of the ear does not come below the center of the eye. Hanging ears, as on a hound, are a disqualification.\
Belgian Tervuren|Coat|The Belgian Tervuren is particularly adaptable to extremes of temperature or climate. The guard hairs of the coat must be long, close-fitting, straight and abundant. The texture is of medium harshness, not silky or wiry. Wavy or curly hair is a fault. The undercoat is very dense, commensurate, however, with climatic conditions. The hair is short on the head, outside the ears, and on the front part of the legs. The opening of the ear is protected by tufts of hair.\
Belgian Tervuren|Hindquarters|Legspowerful without heaviness, moving in the same pattern as the limbs of the forequarters. Bone oval rather than round. Thighs broad and heavily muscled. Stifles clearly defined, with upper shank at right angles to hip bones. Hocks moderately bent. Metatarsi short, perpendicular to the ground, parallel to each other when viewed from the rear. Dewclaws are removed. Feet slightly elongated, toes curved close together, heavily padded, strong nails.\
Belgian Tervuren|Fun Fact|The Terv is known in Belgium as the Chien de Berger Belge.\
Belgian Tervuren|Health|Belgian Tervuren are generally a healthy breed.\
Belgian Tervuren|Grooming|The Belgian Tervuren's thick coat requires brushing at least twice a week.\
Belgian Tervuren|General Appearance|The first impression of the Belgian Tervuren is that of a well-balanced, medium-size dog, elegant in appearance, standing squarely on all fours, with proud carriage of head and neck. He is strong, agile, well-muscled, alert and full of life. He gives the impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness. The male should appear unquestionably masculine; the female should have a distinctly feminine look and be judged equally with the male.\'a0 The Belgian Tervuren is anaturaldog and there is no need for excessive posing in the show ring. The Belgian Tervuren reflects the qualities of intelligence, courage, alertness and devotion to master. In addition to his inherent ability as a herding dog, he protects his master's person and property without being overtly aggressive. He is watchful, attentive, and usually in motion when not under command. The Belgian Tervuren is a herding dog and versatile worker. The highest value is to be placed on qualities that maintain these abilities, specifically, correct temperament, gait, bite and coat.\
Belgian Tervuren|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Belgian Tervuren is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Belgian Tervuren|Exercise|Belgian Tervuren take genuine delight in their ability to master any task.\
Belgian Tervuren|History|1959 - The Belgian Tervuren was officially recognized by the AKC\
Norwegian Elkhound|Body|Neck\'a0of medium length, muscular, well set up with a slight arch and with no loose skin on the throat.Topline- The back is straight and strong from its high point at the withers to the root of the tail. Thebodyis short and close-coupled with the rib cage accounting for most of its length. Chest deep and moderately broad; brisket level with points of elbows; and ribs well sprung. Loin short and wide with very little tuck-up.Tailset high, tightly curled, and carried over the centerline of the back. It is thickly and closely haired, without brush, natural and untrimmed.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Forequarters|Shoulders sloping with elbows closely set on. Lets well under body and medium in length; substantial, but not coarse, in bone. Seen from the front, the legs appear straight and parallel. Single dewclaws are normally present. Feet-Paws comparatively small, slightly oval with tightly closed toes and thick pads. Pasterns are strong and only slightly bent. Feet turn neither in nor out.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Head|Head\'a0broad at the ears, wedge shaped, strong and dry (without loose skin).Expressionkeen, alert, indicating a dog with great courage.Eyesvery dark brown, medium in size, oval, not protruding.Earsset high, firm and erect, yet very mobile. Comparatively small; slightly taller than their width at the base with pointed (not rounded) tips. When the dog is alert, the orifices turn forward and the outer edges are vertical. When relaxed or showing affection, the ears go back, and the dog should not be penalized for doing this during the judge's examination. Viewed from the side, the forehead and back of theskullare only slightly arched; the stop not large, yet clearly defined.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Coat|Thick, hard, weather resisting and smooth lying; made up of soft, dense, woolly undercoat and coarse, straight covering hairs. Short and even on head, ears, and front of legs; longest on back of neck, buttocks and underside of tail. The coat is not altered by trimming, clipping or artificial treatment. Trimming of whiskers is optional. In the show ring, presentation in a natural, unaltered condition is essential.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Hindquarters|Moderate angulation at stifle and hock. Thighs are broad and well muscled. Seen from behind, legs are straight, strong and without dewclaws. Feet as in front.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Fun Fact|The Norwegian Elkhound is a hunting dog that originated in Norway as early as 5000 B.C.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Health|Norwegian Elkhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Grooming|The breed's thick double coat needs regular weekly grooming with a pin brush and comb to keep shedding at bay.\
Norwegian Elkhound|General Appearance|The Norwegian Elkhound is a hardy gray hunting dog. In appearance, a typical northern dog of medium size and substance, square in profile, close coupled and balanced in proportions. The head is broad with prick ears, and the tail is tightly curled and carried over the back. The distinctive gray coat is dense and smooth lying. As a hunter, the Norwegian Elkhound has the courage, agility and stamina to hold moose and other big game at bay by barking and dodging attack, and the endurance to track for long hours in all weather over rough and varied terrain.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norwegian Elkhounds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Norwegian Elkhound|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Elkhounds are robust, athletic dogs who thrive on exercise.\
Norwegian Elkhound|History|1913 - The Norwegian Elkhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Portuguese Podengo|Body|The neck is straight, strong and well-muscled. It transitions smoothly from head to body and is free from throatiness.Topline- The top line is typical of larger sight houndstraight or slightly arched.Body- Well-proportioned body slightly longer than height at withers. Ribs moderately well sprung and well carried back. The chest reaches down to the elbow, medium width. The croup is straight or slightly sloping, broad and muscular. There is a slight tuck up.\
Portuguese Podengo|Forequarters|The shoulder is long, inclined, and strong, angulation is moderate. The forelegs are straight, lean and well-muscled, with elbows held parallel to the body. The pastern joint is not prominent and the pasterns are short and strong. Presence or absence of front dew claws immaterial. The wrists are very elastic and flexible.\
Portuguese Podengo|Head|Theheadis lean with a flat or slightly archedskull.Eyes- Almond shaped, very expressive, moderate in size, not prominent, set obliquely, color varies according to coat color from honey to brown. Fault - Eyes of two different colors.Ears- The ears are triangular in shape with their length greater than their width at the base. They are carried erect. Highly mobile, the ear can point forward, sideways, or be folded backward, according to mood. The lowest point of the base is at level of the eye.\
Portuguese Podengo|Coat|There are two types of coat: Smooth coat which is short and very dense with undercoat present. Wire coat which is rough and harsh, not as dense as the Smooth coat, and without undercoat. The Wire coat produces a distinct beard. The coat is to be shown in a natural state, the face and feet may be trimmed, but no other trimming or shaving is to be condoned. The coat does transition as the new coat grows in the old coat dies and comes out in large sections starting at the base of the neck, down the center of the back and then down the sides of the body. The coat is not to be penalized in this state of change.\
Portuguese Podengo|Hindquarters|Well-muscled and clean. Upper thigh long, of medium width, muscular. Moderately angulated. The rear pasterns are strong, short and straight and there are no dewclaws. Feet - Oval, neither cat footed nor hare footed. Toes long, slightly arched, nails strong and preferably dark. Pads firm.\
Portuguese Podengo|Fun Fact|Most Podengos in Portugal are members of actively hunting packs.\
Portuguese Podengo|Health|Portuguese Podengos are generally a healthy breed.\
Portuguese Podengo|Grooming|Both coats needs only weekly brushing.\
Portuguese Podengo|General Appearance|Well-proportioned muscled, sound with moderate bone.Lean 4-sided pyramid shaped head with prick ears. Tail - sickle-shaped. Over emphasis on any one feature should be strongly avoided. The Medio and Grande come in two coat textures, smooth and wire. The Podengo is a hunting dog; scars from honorable wounds shall not be considered a fault.\
Portuguese Podengo|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Portuguese Podengos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Portuguese Podengo|Exercise|The Portuguese Podengo is a great watchdog and companion.\
Portuguese Podengo|History|2004 - First recognized by the AKC in 2004.\
Finnish Spitz|Forequarters|Shoulders- The layback of the shoulders is thirty degrees to the vertical.Legs- Viewed from the front, moderately spaced, parallel and straight with elbows close to the body and turned neither out nor in. Bone strong without being heavy, always in proportion to the dog. Fine bone, which limits endurance, or heavy bone, which makes working movement cumbersome, is to be faulted.\
Finnish Spitz|Head|Clean cut and fox-like. Longer from occiput to tip of nose than broad at widest part of skull in a ratio of 7:4. More refined with less coat or ruff in females than in males, but still in the same ratio. A muscular or coarse head, or a long or narrow head with snipy muzzle, is to be penalized.Expression- Fox-like and lively.Eyes- Almond-shaped with black rims. Obliquely set with moderate spacing between, neither too far apart nor too close. Outer corners tilted upward. Dark in color with a keen and alert expression. Any deviation, runny, weepy, round or light eyes should be faulted.Ears- Set on high. When alert, upward standing, open to the front with tips directly above the outer corner of the eyes. Small erect, sharply pointed and very mobile.\
Finnish Spitz|Coat|The coat is double with a short, soft, dense undercoat and long, harsh straight guard hairs measuring approximately one to two inches on the body. Hair on the head and legs is short and close; it is longest and most dense on plume of tail and back of thighs. The outer coat is stiffer and longer on the neck and back, and in males considerably more profuse at the shoulder, giving them a more ruffed appearance. Males carry more coat than females.The color varies\'a0in shades of golden-red ranging from pale honey to deep auburn. No preference given to shades at either extreme so long as the color is bright and clear. As the undercoat is a paler color, the effect of this shading is a coat that appears to glow.\
Finnish Spitz|Hindquarters| and TailAngulation in balance with the forequarters.Thighs- Muscular.Hocks- Moderately let down. Straight and parallel.Dewclaws- Removed.Feet- As in front.Tail -Set on just below level of topline, forming a single curl falling over the loin with tip pointing towards the thigh. Plumed, curving vigorously from its base in an arch forward, downward, and backward, pressing flat against either thigh with tip extending to middle part of thigh.\
Finnish Spitz|Fun Fact|The Finnish Spitz is, not surprisingly, the national dog of Finland.\
Finnish Spitz|Health|Finnish Spitz are generally a healthy breed.\
Finnish Spitz|Grooming|Their thick double coat sheds and during semiannual shedding seasons they will need more regular brushing and bathing.\
Finnish Spitz|General Appearance|The Finnish Spitz presents a fox-like picture. The breed has long been used to hunt small game and birds. The pointed muzzle, erect ears, dense coat and curled tail denotes its northern heritage. The Finnish Spitzs whole being shows liveliness, which is especially evident in the eyes, ears and tail. Males are decidedly masculine without coarseness. Bitches are decidedly feminine without over-refinement.The Finnish Spitz's most important characteristics are its square, well-balanced body that is symmetrical with no exaggerated features, a glorious red-gold coat, his bold carriage and brisk movement.\
Finnish Spitz|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Finnish Spitz is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Finnish Spitz|Exercise|Very Active; Lively and athletic, Finkies love running, romping, and exploring.\
Finnish Spitz|History|1988 - The Finnish Spitz was officially recognized by the AKC\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|Health|Kooikerhondjes are generally a healthy breed.\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|Fun Fact|The Nederlandse Kooikerhondje has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|Grooming|The breed's short-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or comb to prevent mats.\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Kooikerhondjes is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Nederlandse Kooikerhondje|History|2004 - The Nederlandse Kooikerhondje has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since 2004.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|Health|Drentsche Patrijshonds are generally a healthy breed.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|Fun Fact|The name is pronounced Da'rinse ah Puh'trice hoon.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|Grooming|The breed's coat requires weekly brushing with a brush.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Drentsche Patrijshonds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Drentsche Patrijshond|History|2010 - The Drentsche Patrijshond was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Shiba Inu|Body|Neckis thick, sturdy, and of moderate length.Toplineis straight and level to the base of the tail.Bodyis dry and well muscled without the appearance of sluggishness or coarseness. Forechest is well developed. Chest depth measured from the withers to the lowest point of the sternum is one-half or slightly less than the total height from withers to ground. Ribs are moderately sprung. Abdomen is firm and well tucked-up. Back is firm. Loins are strong.\
Shiba Inu|Forequarters|Shoulder blade and upper arm are moderately angulated and approximately equal in length. Elbows are set close to the body and turn neither in nor out. Forelegs and feet are moderately spaced, straight, and parallel. Pasterns are slightly inclined. Removal of front dewclaws is optional. Feet are catlike with well-arched toes fitting tightly together. Pads are thick.\
Shiba Inu|Head|Expressionis good natured with a strong and confident gaze.Eyesare somewhat triangular in shape, deep set, and upward slanting toward the outside base of the ear. Iris is dark brown. Eye rims are black.Earsare triangular in shape, firmly pricked and small, but in proportion to head and body size. Ears are set well apart and tilt directly forward with the slant of the back of the ear following the arch of the neck.\
Shiba Inu|Coat|Double coated with the outer coat being stiff and straight and the undercoat soft and thick. Fur is short and even on face, ears, and legs. Guard hairs stand off the body are about 1\'bd to 2 inches in length at the withers. Tail hair is slightly longer and stands open in a brush. It is preferred that the Shiba be presented in a natural state.\
Shiba Inu|Hindquarters|The angulation of the hindquarters is moderate and in balance with the angulation of the forequarters. Hind legs are strong with a wide natural stance. The hock joint is strong, turning neither in nor out. Upper thighs are long and the second thighs short but well developed. No dewclaws. Feet as in forequarters.\
Shiba Inu|Fun Fact|Shibas are considered the oldest and smallest of Japan's dogs.\
Shiba Inu|Health|Shiba Inu are generally a healthy breed.\
Shiba Inu|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Shiba Inu|General Appearance|The Shiba is the smallest of the Japanese native breeds of dog and was originally developed for hunting by sight and scent in the dense undergrowth of Japan's mountainous areas. Alert and agile with keen senses, he is also an excellent watchdog and companion. His frame is compact with well-developed muscles. Males and females are distinctly different in appearance: males are masculine without coarseness, females are feminine without weakness of structure.\
Shiba Inu|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Shiba Inu is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Shiba Inu|Exercise|Very Active; Shibas need exercise each day, whether it\'92s a vigorous play session or a long walk.\
Shiba Inu|History|1992 - The Shiba Inu was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders fine, long and sloping, well laid back and well knit. The elbows hanging perpendicularly to the body and working clear of the side in movement. The forelegs should be straight from both front and side view. The pasterns short, straight and hardly noticeable.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Head|Long, but not exaggerated, and in good proportion to the rest of the body. Well balanced.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Coat|Correct coat is important it is to be soft, dense and wavy. A harsh, wire or bristle coat should be severely penalized. In show trim the body should be well covered but tidy, with the head (except for the whiskers) and the ears and cheeks clear.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Hindquarters|Strong and muscular with full freedom of action, free from droop or crouch, the thighs long and powerful, stifles well bent and turned neither in nor out, hocks near the ground and, when viewed from behind, upright and parallel with each other, the dog standing well up on them.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Fun Fact|The Kerry Blue Terrier originated in Ireland.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Health|Kerry Blue Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|General Appearance|The typical Kerry Blue Terrier should be upstanding well knit and in good balance, showing a well-developed and muscular body with definite terrier style and character throughout. Correct coat and color are important.\'a0 A low-slung Kerry is not typical.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Kerry Blue Terrier is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|Exercise|Energetic and fun-loving, the Kerry Blue Terrier enjoys being part of a family.\
Kerry Blue Terrier|History|1922 - The Kerry Blue Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Manchester Terrier|Health|Manchester Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Manchester Terrier|Fun Fact|The sole difference between the Standard and Toy Manchester, besides size of course, is ear shape.\
Manchester Terrier|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Manchester Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Manchester Terrier is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Manchester Terrier|Exercise|Today, there are many facilities that offer dog training classes from the basic social skills to obedience and agility.\
Manchester Terrier|History|1886 -  (Toy)/1887 (Standard)The Manchester Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Body|Theneckis long and slightly arched, clean in throat, and set into long, sloping shoulders.Toplineis level. The loin is slightly arched, muscular, and close-coupled. The croup is very slightly rounded, never steep nor falling off. The topline in combination with proper angulation fore and aft presents a silhouette that appears rectangular. The chest is well developed and muscular with a prominent forechest, the ribs well sprung and the brisket reaching to the elbows.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Forequarters|The shoulder blade and upper arm are approximately equal in length. The upper arm is set well back, joining the shoulder blade with sufficient angulation to place the elbow beneath the highest point of the shoulder blade when standing. The forearms are of medium length, straight and moderately feathered.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Head|The Welsh Springer Spanielheadis unique and should in no way approximate that of other spaniel breeds. Its overall balance is of primary importance. Head is in proportion to body, never so broad as to appear coarse nor so narrow as to appear racy. Theskullis of medium length, slightly domed, with a clearly defined stop. It is well chiseled below the eyes. The top plane of the skull is very slightly divergent from that of the muzzle, but with no tendency toward a down-faced appearance. A short chubby head is most objectionable.Eyesshould be oval in shape, dark to medium brown in color with a soft expression. Preference is for a darker eye though lighter shades of brown are acceptable. Yellow or mean-looking eyes are to be heavily penalized. Medium in size, they are neither prominent, nor sunken, nor do they show haw. Eye rims are tight and dark pigmentation is preferred.Earsare set on approximately at eye level and hang close to the cheeks. Comparatively small, the leather does not reach to the nose. Gradually narrowing toward the tip, they are shaped somewhat like a vine leaf and are lightly feathered.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Coat|The coat is naturally straight flat and soft to the touch, never wiry or wavy. It is sufficiently dense to be waterproof, thornproof, and weatherproof. The back of the forelegs, the hind legs above the hocks, chest and underside of the body are moderately feathered. The ears and tail are lightly feathered. Coat so excessive as to be a hindrance in the field is to be discouraged. Obvious barbering is to be avoided as well.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Hindquarters|The hindquarters must be strong, muscular, and well boned, but not coarse. When viewed in profile the thighs should be wide and the second thighs well developed. The angulation of the pelvis and femur corresponds to that of the shoulder and upper arm. Bend of stifle is moderate. T\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Fun Fact|The history of the Welsh Springer Spaniel begins as far back as 7000 BC.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Health|Welsh Springer Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Grooming|This breed needs at least weekly brushing to maintain its coat and keep it free from mats.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|General Appearance|The Welsh Springer Spaniel is an attractive dog of handy size, exhibiting substance without coarseness. He is compact, not leggy, obviously built for hard work and endurance. The Welsh Springer Spaniel gives the impression of length due to obliquely angled forequarters and well developed hindquarters. Being a hunting dog, he should be shown in hard muscled working condition. His coat should not be so excessive as to hinder his work as an active flushing spaniel, but should be thick enough to protect him from heavy cover and weather.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Welsh Springer Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|Exercise|Very Active; Curious and highly energetic, Welshies need regular exercise to stave off problem behaviors.\
Welsh Springer Spaniel|History|1906 - The Welsh Springer Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Doberman Pinscher|Body|Neckproudly carried, well muscled and dry. Well arched, with nape of neck widening gradually toward body. Length of neck proportioned to body and head. Withers pronounced and forming the highest point of the body. Back short, firm, of sufficient width, and muscular at the loins, extending in a straight line from withers to the slightly rounded croup. Chest broad with forechest well defined. Ribs well sprung from the spine, but flattened in lower end to permit elbow clearance. Brisket reaching deep to the elbow. Belly well tucked up, extending in a curved line from the brisket. Loins wide and muscled. Hips broad and in proportion to body, breadth of hips being approximately equal to breadth of body at rib cage and shoulders.Taildocked at approximately second joint, appears to be a continuation of the spine, and is carried only slightly above the horizontal when the dog is alert.\
Doberman Pinscher|Forequarters|Shoulder Blade-sloping forward and downward at a 45-degree angle to the ground meets the upper arm at an angle of 90 degrees. Length of shoulder blade and upper arm are equal. Height from elbow to withers approximately equals height from ground to elbow. Legs seen from front and side, perfectly straight and parallel to each other from elbow to pastern; muscled and sinewy, with heavy bone. In normal pose and when gaiting, the elbows lie close to the brisket. Pasterns firm and almost perpendicular to the ground. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet well arched, compact, and catlike, turning neither in nor out.\
Doberman Pinscher|Head|Long and dry, resembling a blunt wedge in both frontal and profile views. When seen from the front, the\'a0head\'a0widens gradually toward the base of the ears in a practically unbroken line.Eyesalmond shaped, moderately deep set, with vigorous, energetic expression. Iris, of uniform color, ranging from medium to darkest brown in black dogs; in reds, blues, and fawns the color of the iris blends with that of the markings, the darkest shade being preferable in every case.Earsnormally cropped and carried erect. The upper attachment of the ear, when held erect, is on a level with the top of the skull. \'a0Nose solid black on black dogs, dark brown on red ones, dark gray on blue ones, dark tan on fawns. Lips lying close to jaws. Jaws full and powerful, well filled under the eyes.\
Doberman Pinscher|Coat|Smooth-haired, short, hard, thick and close lying. Invisible gray undercoat on neck permissible.\
Doberman Pinscher|Hindquarters|The angulation of the hindquarters balances that of the forequarters. Hip bone falls away from spinal column at an angle of about 30 degrees, producing a slightly rounded, well filled-out croup. Upper shanks at right angles to the hip bones, are long, wide, and well muscled on both sides of thigh, with clearly defined stifles. Upper and lower shanks are of equal length. While the dog is at rest, hock to heel is perpendicular to the ground. Viewed from the rear, the legs are straight, parallel to each other, and wide enough apart to fit in with a properly built body. Dewclaws, if any, are generally removed. Cat feet as on front legs, turning neither in nor out.\
Doberman Pinscher|Fun Fact|The Doberman originated in Apolda, in Thueringen, Germany, around 1890.\
Doberman Pinscher|Health|Doberman Pinschers are generally a healthy breed.\
Doberman Pinscher|Grooming|Because the Doberman has a short coat he only needs minimal grooming.\
Doberman Pinscher|General Appearance|The appearance is that of a dog of medium size, with a body that is square. Compactly built, muscular and powerful, for great endurance and speed. Elegant in appearance, of proud carriage, reflecting great nobility and temperament. Energetic, watchful, determined, alert, fearless, loyal and obedient.\
Doberman Pinscher|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Doberman Pinschers is very important from puppyhood to their  senior years.\
Doberman Pinscher|Exercise|Very Active; Dobes are energetic dogs who need regular exercise to keep their magnificent physique.\
Doberman Pinscher|History|1908 - The Doberman Pinscher was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Dalmatian|Body|Theneckis nicely arched, fairly long, free from throatiness, and blends smoothly into the shoulders. Thetoplineis smooth. The chest is deep, capacious and of moderate width, having good spring of rib without being barrel shaped. The brisket reaches to the elbow. The underline of the rib cage curves gradually into a moderate tuck-up. The back is level and strong. The loin is short, muscular and slightly arched. The flanks narrow through the loin. The croup is nearly level with the back. Thetailis a natural extension of the topline. It is not inserted too low down. It is strong at the insertion and tapers to the tip, which reaches to the hock. It is never docked. The tail is carried with a slight upward curve but should never curl over the back. Ring tails and low-set tails are faults.\
Dalmatian|Forequarters|The shoulders are smoothly muscled and well laid back. The upper arm is approximately equal in length to the shoulder blade and joins it at an angle sufficient to insure that the foot falls under the shoulder. The elbows are close to the body. The legs are straight, strong and sturdy in bone. There is a slight angle at the pastern denoting flexibility.\
Dalmatian|Head|Theheadis in balance with the overall dog. It is of fair length and is free of loose skin. The Dalmatian'sexpressionis alert and intelligent, indicating a stable and outgoing temperament. Theeyesare set moderately well apart, are medium sized and somewhat rounded in appearance, and are set well into the skull. Eye color is brown or blue, or any combination thereof; the darker the better and usually darker in black-spotted than in liver-spotted dogs. Abnormal position of the eyelids or eyelashes (ectropion, entropion, trichiasis) is a major fault. Incomplete pigmentation of the eye rims is a major fault. Theearsare of moderate size, proportionately wide at the base and gradually tapering to a rounded tip. They are set rather high, and are carried close to the head, and are thin and fine in texture. When the Dalmatian is alert, the top of the ear is level with the top of the skull and the tip of the ear reaches to the bottom line of the cheek. The nose is completely pigmented on the leather, black in black-spotted dogs and brown in liver-spotted dogs. Incomplete nose pigmentation is a major fault. The lips are clean and close fitting.\
Dalmatian|Coat|The coat is short, dense, fine and close fitting. It is neither woolly nor silky. It is sleek, glossy and healthy in appearance.\
Dalmatian|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are powerful, having smooth, yet well defined muscles. The stifle is well bent. The hocks are well let down. When the Dalmatian is standing, the hind legs, viewed from the rear, are parallel to each other from the point of the hock to the heel of the pad. Cowhocks are a major fault.Feet:Feet are very important. Both front and rear feet are round and compact with thick, elastic pads and well arched toes. Flat feet are a major fault. Toenails are black and/or white in black- spotted dogs and brown and/or white in liver- spotted dogs. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Dalmatian|Fun Fact|Dalmatian puppies are born without spots.\
Dalmatian|Health|The Dalmatian is a comparatively healthy breed with few known health issues.\
Dalmatian|Grooming|The Dalmatian\'92s short coat sheds almost year round, but regular brushing helps minimize the shedding.\
Dalmatian|General Appearance|The Dalmatian is a distinctively spotted dog; poised and alert; strong, muscular and active; free of shyness; intelligent in expression; symmetrical in outline; and without exaggeration or coarseness. The Dalmatian is capable of great endurance, combined with fair amount of speed. Deviations from the described ideal should be penalized in direct proportion to the degree of the deviation.\
Dalmatian|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dalmatians is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Dalmatian|Exercise|Very Active; Athletic, durable dogs created for long jaunts, Dals need their exercise.\
Dalmatian|History|1888 - The Dalmatian was officially recognized by the AKC\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Body|Theneckis muscular, rather short, clean in outline and gradually widening toward the shoulders. Thebodyis close coupled, with a leveltopline, wide front, deep brisket and well sprung ribs being rather light in the loins. Thetailis undocked, of medium length, low set, tapering to a point and carried rather low. It should not curl much and may be likened to an old-fashioned pump handle. A tail that is too long or badly curled is a fault.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Forequarters|Legs straight and well boned, set rather far apart, without looseness at the shoulders and showing no weakness at the pasterns, from which point the feet turn out a little. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed. The feet should be well padded, strong and of medium size.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Head|Short, deep through, broadskull, very pronounced cheek muscles, distinct stop, short foreface, black nose. Pink (Dudley) nose to be considered a serious fault.Eyes-Dark preferable, but may bear some relation to coat color. Round, of medium size, and set to look straight ahead. Light eyes or pink eye rims to be considered a fault, except that where the coat surrounding the eye is white the eye rim may be pink.Ears-Rose or half-pricked and not large. Full drop or full prick to be considered a serious fault.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Coat|Smooth, short and close to the skin, not to be trimmed or de-whiskered.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Hindquarters|The hindquarters should be well muscled, hocks let down with stifles well bent. Legs should be parallel when viewed from behind. Dewclaws, if any, on the hind legs are generally removed. Feet as in front.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Fun Fact|The old-fashioned Bulldog was a fierce, courageous animal used in the sports of bear- and bull-baiting as early as the mid-sixteenth century.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Health|Staffordshire Bull Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Grooming|The Staffy's coat is short and smooth, and needs only a quick brushing once a week.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|General Appearance|The Staffordshire Bull Terrier is a smooth-coated dog. It should be of great strength for its size and, although muscular, should be active and agile.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Staffordshire Bull Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Vigorous exercise and secure running room are a must; neglected Staffies are destructive.\
Staffordshire Bull Terrier|History|1974 - The Stafford Bull Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Forequarters|Strong boned, well muscled and straight. The shoulders are relatively long, muscular but not loaded, with good layback. The shoulder blade and humerus are approximately the same length, forming an angle slightly greater than 90 degrees when standing. Steep shoulders are faulty.Elbows close to the body and parallel. Elbows which are too far out or in are faults.Forearms viewed either in profile or from the front are perfectly straight, parallel to each other and perpendicular to the ground. They are well muscled and strong boned.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Head|The head is impressive in scale, accentuated by beard and mustache. It is in proportion to body and build. Theexpressionis bold and alert.Eyesneither protrude nor are sunken in the sockets. Their shape is oval with the axis on the horizontal plane, when viewed from the front. Their color is a dark brown. The eye rims are black without lack of pigment and the haw is barely visible. Yellow or light eyes are to be strongly penalized, along with a walleyed or staring expression.Earsplaced high and alert. If cropped, they are to be a triangular contour and in proportion to the size of the head. The inner corner of the ear should be in line with the outer corner of the eye. Ears that are too low or too closely set are serious faults.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Coat|A tousled, double coat capable of withstanding the hardest work in the most inclement weather. The outer hairs are rough and harsh, with the undercoat being fine, soft and dense. The coat may be trimmed slightly only to accent the body line. Overtrimming which alters the natural rugged appearance is to be avoided.Topcoatmust be harsh to the touch, dry, trimmed, if necessary, to a length of approximately 2\'bd inches. A coat too long or too short is a fault, as is a silky or woolly coat. It is tousled without being curly.Earsare rough-coated.Undercoata dense mass of fine, close hair, thicker in winter. Together with the topcoat, it will form a water-resistant covering.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Hindquarters|Firm, well muscled with large, powerful hams. They should be parallel with the front legs when viewed from either front or rear. Legs moderately long, well muscled, neither too straight nor too inclined. Thighs wide and muscular. The upper thigh must be neither too straight nor too sloping. There is moderate angulation at the stifle.Hocks strong, rather close to the ground. When standing and seen from the rear, they will be straight and perfectly parallel to each other.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Fun Fact|The Bouvier originated in Southwest Flanders and on the French northern plain.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Health|Bouviers are a large breed and grow rapidly.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Grooming|A Bouvier des Flandres\'92 coat grows constantly and if not maintained on a regular basis can easily become matted.\
Bouvier des Flandres|General Appearance|The Bouvier des Flandres is a powerfully built, compact, short-coupled, rough-coated dog of notably rugged appearance. He gives the impression of great strength without any sign of heaviness or clumsiness in his overall makeup. He is agile, spirited and bold, yet his serene, well behaved disposition denotes his steady, resolute and fearless character. His gaze is alert and brilliant, depicting his intelligence, vigor and daring. By nature he is an equable dog. His origin is that of a cattle herder and general farmer's helper, including cart pulling.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bouvier des Flandres is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Bouvier des Flandres|Exercise|They\'92re incomparable watchdogs and guardians, and eager participants in any number of dog sports.\
Bouvier des Flandres|History|1931 - The Bouvier des Flandres was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Redbone Coonhound|Body|Neck- Medium in length, strong, slightly arched and held erect, denoting proudness. Throat - Slight fold of skin below the angle of jaw, clean throat is permissible. Faults - Too long, too thick, not in proportion with head and body.Topline- slightly taller at the withers than at the hips. Fault - Hips higher than withers. Body Chest - Deep, broad. Ribs - Well sprung to provide optimal lung capacity, denoting stamina. Back - Strong. Faults - Roach or sway back. Loin - Slightly arched. Tail - Medium length, very slight brush and saber-like. Faults - Not strong at root, heavy brush, Setter-like plume, curl tail.\
Redbone Coonhound|Forequarters|Shoulders - Clean and muscular. Shoulder angulation should have a perfect 90-degree angle or close. Legs - Straight, well-boned. The forelegs will be set under dog and feet under his withers, not under ears. Pasterns - Straight, well set, clean and muscular, denoting both speed and strength. Faults - Forelegs crooked, out at elbows. Feet - Cat-paw type, compact, well padded. Toes - Stout, strong and well-arched. Nails - Well-set. Faults - Flat feet, open feet, hind dewclaws.\
Redbone Coonhound|Head|Expression- Pleading.Eyes- Dark brown to hazel in color, dark preferred. Set well apart. No drooping eyelids. Eyes round in shape. Faults-Yellow eyes, drooping eyelids.Ears- Set moderately low, fine in texture. Reaching near the end of the nose when stretched out. Proportioned to head. Faults -Stiff to the touch. Appearing to be attached only to the skin, instead of firmly attached to the head.\
Redbone Coonhound|Coat|Short, smooth, coarse enough to provide protection.\
Redbone Coonhound|Hindquarters|Thighs - Clean and muscular. Fault - Cowhocked. Hindquarters should have the same angulation as the forequarters. Well boned.\
Redbone Coonhound|Fun Fact|The Redbone Coonhound is AKC's 164th breed.\
Redbone Coonhound|Health|Redbone Coonhounds are generally a very healthy and very hardy breed.\
Redbone Coonhound|Grooming|The Redbone Coonhound short, smooth coat requires only occasional brushing.\
Redbone Coonhound|General Appearance|Hunted from swamplands to mountains, the Redbone is surefooted and swift, even on the most difficult terrain. Well-balanced, with a flashy red coat and excellent cold nose, the powerfully built Redbone mingles handsome looks with a confident air and fine hunting talents.\
Redbone Coonhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Redbone Coonhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Redbone Coonhound|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Vigorous activity like hunting and swimming between long periods of rest is the rhythm of coonhounds.\
Redbone Coonhound|History|2009 - The Redbone Coonhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Puli|Body|Theneckis strong, muscular, of medium length and free of throatiness. The backis level and strong, of medium length, with croup sloping slightly. The chestis moderately broad and deep - the ribs well sprung. The loin is short, strong and moderately tucked up. Thetailis carried over, and blends into the backline.\
Puli|Forequarters|The shoulders are well laid back. Upper arm and scapula are approximately equal in length and form an angle of 90 degrees. The forelegs are straight, strong and medium boned with strong and flexible pasterns. Dewclaws, if any, may be removed. The round, compact feet have well arched toes and thick cushioned pads. The Puli stands well up on his pads. The pads and nails are black or slate gray.\
Puli|Head|Theheadis of medium size in proportion to the body. The almond shapedeyesare deep set, rather large, and dark brown with black or slate gray eye rims. Theears,set on somewhat higher than the level of the eyes, are hanging, of medium size, V-shape, and about half the head length. The nose is always black.\
Puli|Coat|The dense, weather resistant coat is profuse on all parts of the body. The outer coat is wavy or curly, but never silky. The undercoat is soft, wooly and dense. The coat clumps together easily, and if allowed to develop naturally, will form cords in the adult. The cords are wooly, varying in shape and thickness, either flat or round, depending on the texture of the coat and the balance of undercoat to outer coat. The Puli may be shown either corded or brushed. It is essential that the proper double coat with correct texture always be apparent. With age the coat can become quite long, even reaching to the ground; however, only enough length to properly evaluate quality and texture is considered necessary so as not to penalize the younger or working specimens.\
Puli|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are well developed and muscular with well bent stifles, the rear assembly balancing that of the front. The hocks are perpendicular to the ground and well let down. Dewclaws, if any, may be removed. Feet as in front.\
Puli|Fun Fact|The plural of Puli is Pulik (pronounced the same way).\
Puli|Health|Pulik are generally a hearty and healthy breed.\
Puli|Grooming|The corded coat takes time to maintain.\
Puli|General Appearance|The Puli is a compact, square appearing, well balanced dog of medium size. He is vigorous, alert and active. Striking and highly characteristic is the shaggy coat which, combined with his light-footed, distinctive movement, has fitted him for the strenuous work of herding flocks on the plains of Hungary. Agility, combined with soundness of mind and body, is of prime importance for the proper fulfillment of this centuries-old task.\
Puli|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pulik is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Puli|Exercise|Intelligent and possessing an excellent sense of humor, Pulik retain their "puppy" attitude nearly their entire lives.\
Puli|History|1936 - The Puli was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Schapendoes|Health|Schapendoes are generally a healthy breed.\
Schapendoes|Fun Fact|The Schapendoes has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Schapendoes|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, wavy coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or comb to prevent mats.\
Schapendoes|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Schapendoes is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Schapendoes|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Schapendoes|History|2005 - The Schapendoes was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Borzoi|Body|Neck:Clean, free from throatiness; slightly arched, very powerful and well set on.Shoulders:Sloping, fine at the withers and free from coarseness or lumber.Chest: Rather narrow, with great depth of brisket.Ribs: Only slightly sprung, but very deep giving room for heart and lung play.Back: Rising a little at the loins in a graceful curve.Loins: Extremely muscular, but rather tucked up, owing to the great depth of chest and comparative shortness of back and ribs.\
Borzoi|Head|Skullslightly domed, long and narrow, with scarcely any perceptible stop, inclined to be Roman-nosed. Jaws long, powerful and deep, somewhat finer in bitches but not snipy. Teeth strong and clean with either an even or a scissorsbite. Missing teeth should be penalized. Nose large and black.Ears:Small and fine in quality, lying back on the neck when in repose with the tips when thrown back almost touching behind occiput; raised when at attention.Eyes:Set somewhat obliquely, dark in color, intelligent but rather soft in expression; never round, full nor staring, nor light in color; eye rims dark; inner corner midway between tip of nose and occiput.\
Borzoi|Coat|Long, silky (not woolly), either flat, wavy or rather curly. On the head, ears and front of legs it should be short and smooth; on the neck the frill should be profuse and rather curly. Feather on hindquarters and tail, long and profuse, less so on chest and back of forelegs.\
Borzoi|Hindquarters|Long, very muscular and powerful with well bent stifles; somewhat wider than the forequarters; strong first and second thighs; hocks clean and well let down; legs parallel when viewed from the rear.\
Borzoi|Fun Fact|The Borzoi was known until 1936 as the Russian Wolfhound.\
Borzoi|Health|As the Borzoi is not a popular breed, we are blessed in not having many health problems.\
Borzoi|Grooming|A Borzoi coat only requires minimal trimming to keep it tidy.\
Borzoi|General Appearance|The Borzoi was originally bred for the coursing of wild game on more or less open terrain, relying on sight rather than scent. To accomplish this purpose, the Borzoi needed particular structural qualities to chase, catch and hold his quarry. Special emphasis is placed on sound running gear, strong neck and jaws, courage and agility, combined with proper condition. The Borzoi should always possess unmistakable elegance, with flowing lines, graceful in motion or repose. Males, masculine without coarseness; bitches, feminine and refined.\
Borzoi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Borzoi is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Borzoi|Exercise|Borzoi are cherished for their calm, agreeable temperament.\
Borzoi|History|1891 - The Borzoi was officially recognized by the AKC\
Sealyham Terrier|Body|Strong, short-coupled and substantial, so as to permit great flexibility. Brisket deep and well let down between forelegs. Ribs well sprung.Neck:\'a0Length slightly less than two-thirds of height of dog at withers. Muscular without coarseness, with good reach, refinement at throat, and set firmly on shoulders.Shoulders:\'a0Well laid back and powerful, but not over-muscled. Sufficiently wide to permit freedom of action. Upright or straight shoulder placement highly undesirable.\
Sealyham Terrier|Forequarters|Forelegs strong, with good bone; and as straight as is consistent with chest being well let down between them. Down on pasterns, knuckled over, bowed, and out at elbow, bad faults. Hind legs longer than forelegs and not so heavily boned.\'a0Feet\'a0- Large but compact, round with thick pads, strong nails. Toes well arched and pointing straight ahead. Forefeet larger, though not quite so long as hind feet. Thin, spread or flat feet bad faults.\
Sealyham Terrier|Head|Long, broad and powerful, without coarseness. It should, however, be in perfect balance with the body, joining neck smoothly. Length of head roughly three-quarters height at withers, or about an inch longer than neck. Breadth between ears a little less than one-half length of head.stop.Cheeks-Smoothly formed and flat, without heavy jowls.Jaws\'a0- Powerful and square.\'a0Nose\'a0- Black, with large nostrils. White, cherry or butterfly bad faults.\
Sealyham Terrier|Coat|Weather-resisting, comprised of soft, dense undercoat and hard, wiry top coat. Silky or curly coat bad fault.\
Sealyham Terrier|Hindquarters|Very powerful, and protruding well behind the set-on of tail. Strong second thighs, stifles well bent, and hocks well let down. Cowhocks bad fault.\
Sealyham Terrier|Fun Fact|The Sealyham Terrier was originally bred in Wales.\
Sealyham Terrier|Health|Sealyham Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Sealyham Terrier|Grooming|Brushing and combing is necessary at least twice a week to remove mats and trimming is necessary every month.\
Sealyham Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Sealyham Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Sealyham Terrier|Exercise|This proud, compact, sturdy little dog makes an ideal companion for young and old.\
Sealyham Terrier|History|1911 - The Sealyham Terrier was recognized by the AKC.\
Hamiltonstovare|Fun Fact|The Hamiltonst\'f6vare has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Forequarters|Powerfully constructed shoulders. The forelegs are straight, with elbows turning neither in nor out; pasterns strong and erect. Feet are compact, with well knuckled, strongly arched toes and thick, strong pads. Penalize flat or splayed feet.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Head|Theheadis cleanly modeled. From the back of the skull to the nose the head measures from 9 to 10 inches in males and from 8 to 9 inches in females.Expressionis alert, friendly and eager. The skin is devoid of folds. Nostrils well open and always black. The flews are well developed with typical hound appearance. Penalize excessive wrinkles.Eyesare from hazel to dark brown in color, almost round and not deeply set. Penalize yellow or light eyes.Earsare low set and well back. They hang in graceful folds, giving the dog a majestic appearance. In length they extend naturally well beyond the tip of the nose and are set at eye level or lower. Penalize ears that do not reach the tip of the nose and are set too high on the head.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Coat|The coat is short but dense to withstand rough going.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Hindquarters|Quarters are well boned and muscled. From hip to hock long and sinewy, hock to pad short and strong. Stifles and hocks well bent and not inclining either in or out. When standing on a level surface, the hind feet are set back from under the body and the leg from pad to hock is at right angles to the ground. Fault-Rear dewclaws.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Fun Fact|The Black and Tan Coonhound is believed to be derived from Bloodhounds and Foxhounds.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Health|The Black & Tan Coonhound is generally a healthy breed.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Grooming|Their short dense coat, which sheds dirt well, also has a slightly oily feel to it.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|General Appearance|The Black and Tan Coonhound is first and fundamentally a working dog, a trail and tree hound, capable of withstanding the rigors of winter, the heat of summer, and the difficult terrain over which he is called upon to work. Used principally for trailing and treeing raccoon, the Black and Tan Coonhound runs his game entirely by scent. The characteristics and courage of the Coonhound also make him proficient on the hunt for deer, bear, mountain lion and other big game. Judges are asked by the club sponsoring the breed to place great emphasis upon these facts when evaluating the merits of the dog. The general impression is that of power, agility and alertness. He immediately impresses one with his ability to cover the ground with powerful rhythmic strides.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Black and Tan Coonhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|Exercise|They can keep pace with the most active family, but they also can happily hog the sofa for hours on end.\
Black and Tan Coonhound|History|1945 - The Black and Tan Coonhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Body|Neckshould be of medium length with a strong muscular appearance, tapering to the shoulders.Toplineshould show the hindquarters to be as high as or a trifle higher than the shoulders. Back should be short, well coupled and powerful. Chest should be strong, deep and wide. Rib cage barrel round and deep.Bodyis of medium length, neither cobby nor roached, but rather approaching hollowness from underneath as the flanks should be well tucked up.Tailof medium length; medium heavy at the base. The tail should be straight or slightly curved and should not curl over back or side kink.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Forequarters|There should be no tendency to weakness in the forequarters. Shoulders should be sloping with full liberty of action, plenty of power and without any restrictions of movement. Legs should be medium in length and straight, showing good bone and muscle. Pasterns slightly bent and of medium length. The front legs should appear straight when viewed from front or rear. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed. Well webbed hare feet should be of good size with toes well-rounded and close.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Head|The Chesapeake Bay Retriever should have an intelligent expression.Eyesare to be medium large, very clear, of yellowish or amber color and wide apart.Earsare to be small, set well up on the head, hanging loosely, and of medium leather.Skullis broad and round with a medium stop. Nose is medium short.Muzzleis approximately the same length as the skull, tapered, pointed but not sharp. Lips are thin, not pendulous.Bite-Scissors is preferred, but a level bite is acceptable. Disqualifications: Either undershot or overshot bites are to be disqualified.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Coat|Coat should be thick and short, nowhere over 1\'bd inches long, with a dense fine wooly undercoat. Hair on the face and legs should be very short and straight with a tendency to wave on the shoulders, neck, back and loins only. Moderate feathering on rear of hindquarters and tail is permissible. The texture of the Chesapeake's coat is very important, as the Chesapeake is used for hunting under all sorts of adverse weather conditions, often working in ice and snow. The oil in the harsh outer coat and wooly undercoat is of extreme value in preventing the cold water from reaching the Chesapeake's skin and aids in quick drying. A Chesapeake's coat should resist the water in the same way that a duck's feathers do. When the Chesapeake leaves the water and shakes, the coat should not hold water at all, being merely moist. Disqualifications: A coat that is curly or has a tendency to curl all over the body must be disqualified. Feathering on the tail or legs over 1\'be inches long must be disqualified.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Hindquarters|Good hindquarters are essential. They should show fully as much power as the forequarters. There should be no tendency to weakness in the hindquarters. Hindquarters should be especially powerful to supply the driving power for swimming. Legs should be medium length and straight, showing good bone and muscle. Stifles should be well angulated. The distance from hock to ground should be of medium length. The hind legs should look straight when viewed from the front or rear. Dewclaws, if any, must be removed from the hind legs. Disqualifications: Dewclaws on the hind legs are a disqualification.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Fun Fact|The Chessie is known for its prowess in rough, icy water.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Health|As soon as you get your puppy home, you should have him examined by your veterinarian.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Grooming|The Chessie has a water-resistant double coat.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|General Appearance|The breed's characteristics are specifically suited to enable the Chesapeake to function with ease, efficiency and endurance. In head, the Chesapeake's skull is broad and round with a medium stop. The jaws should be of sufficient length and strength to carry large game birds with an easy, tender hold. The double coat consists of a short, harsh, wavy outer coat and a dense, fine, wooly undercoat containing an abundance of natural oil and is ideally suited for the icy rugged conditions of weather the Chesapeake often works in. In body, the Chesapeake is a strong, well-balanced, powerfully built animal of moderate size and medium length in body and leg, deep and wide in chest, the shoulders built with full liberty of movement, and with no tendency to weakness in any feature, particularly the rear\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Chesapeake Bay Retrievers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|Exercise|Chesapeakes are naturals in the field.\
Chesapeake Bay Retriever|History|1878 - The Chesapeake Bay Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Affenpinscher|Body|Short and straight.Toplinestraight and level.Body-The chest is moderately broad and deep; ribs are moderately sprung. Tuckup is slight. The back is short and level with a strong loin. The croup has just a perceptible curve.Tailmay be docked or natural. A docked tail is generally between 1 and 2 inches long, set high and carried erect. The natural tail is set high and carried curved gently up over the back while moving. The type of tail is not a major consideration.\
Affenpinscher|Forequarters|Front angulation is moderate. Shoulders - with moderate layback. The length of the shoulder blade and the upper arm are about equal. Elbows - close to the body. Front legs straight when viewed from any direction. Pasterns short and straight. Dewclaws generally removed. Feet small, round, and compact with black pads and nails.\
Affenpinscher|Head|Theheadis in proportion to the body, carried confidently with monkey-like facial expression.Eyes-Round, dark, brilliant, and of medium size in proportion to the head but not bulging or protruding. Eye rims are black.Ears-Cropped to a point, set high and standing erect; or natural, standing erect, semi-erect or dropped. All of the above types of ears, if symmetrical, are acceptable as long as the monkey-like expression is maintained.Skull-Round and domed, but not coarse. Stop -Well-defined.Muzzle-Short and narrowing slightly to a blunt nose. The length of the muzzle is approximately the same as the distance between the eyes. Nose - Black, turned neither up nor down. Lips -\'a0Black, with prominent lower lip.Bite-Slightly undershot. A level bite is acceptable if the monkey-like expression is maintained. An overshot bite is to be severely penalized. A wry mouth is a serious fault. The teeth and tongue do not show when the mouth is closed. The lower jaw is broad enough for the lower teeth to be straight and even.\
Affenpinscher|Coat|Dense hair, rough, harsh, and about 1 inch in length on the shoulders and body. May be shorter on the rear and tail. Head, neck, chest, stomach and legs have longer, less harsh coat. The mature Affenpinscher has a mane or cape of strong hair which blends into the back coat at the withers area. The longer hair on the head, eyebrows and beard stands off and frames the face to emphasize the monkey-like expression. Hair on the ears is cut very short. A correct coat needs little grooming to blend the various lengths of hair to maintain a neat but shaggy appearance.\
Affenpinscher|Hindquarters|Rear angulation is moderate to match the front. Hindlegs straight when viewed from behind. From the side, hindlegs are set under the body to maintain a square appearance. The length of the upper thigh and the second thigh are about equal with moderate bend to the stifle. Hocks - Moderately angulated.\
Affenpinscher|Fun Fact|The Affenpinscher is one of the most ancient of Toy dogs\
Affenpinscher|Health|Follow the vet\'92s instructions on regular inoculations, nutrition and any special problems you may encounter.\
Affenpinscher|Grooming|Their wiry coat requires minimal grooming and should be brushed and combed twice a week and trimmed twice a year.\
Affenpinscher|General Appearance|The Affenpinscher is a balanced, wiry-haired terrier-like toy dog whose intelligence and demeanor make it a good house pet. Originating in Germany, the name Affenpinscher means "monkey-like terrier." The breed was developed to rid the kitchens, granaries, and stables of rodents. In France the breed is described as the "Diablotin Moustachu" or moustached little devil. Both describe the appearance and attitude of this delightful breed. The total overall appearance of the Affenpinscher is more important than any individual characteristic. He is described as having a neat but shaggy appearance.\
Affenpinscher|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Affenpinschers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Affenpinscher|Exercise|Affenpinschers are very active indoors and most of their exercise needs can be met with indoor play.\
Affenpinscher|History|1936 - The Affenpinscher was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Welsh Terrier|Body|Theneckis of moderate length and thickness, slightly arched and sloping gracefully into the shoulders. The throat is clean with no excess of skin. Thetoplineis level.Thebodyshows good substance and is well ribbed up. There is good depth of brisket and moderate width of chest. The loin is strong and moderately short. Thetailis docked to a length approximately level (on an imaginary line) with the occiput, to complete the square image of the whole dog. The root of the tail is set well up on the back. It is carried upright.\
Welsh Terrier|Forequarters|The front is straight. The shoulders are long, sloping and well laid back. The legs are straight and muscular with upright and powerful pasterns. The feet are small, round, and catlike. The pads are thick and black. The nails are strong and black; any dewclaws are removed.\
Welsh Terrier|Head|The entireheadis rectangular. Theeyesare small, dark brown and almond-shaped, well set in the skull. They are placed fairly far apart. The size, shape, color and position of the eyes give the steady, confident but alert expression that is typical of the Welsh Terrier. Theearsare V-shaped, small, but not too thin. The fold is just above the topline of the skull. The ears are carried forward close to the cheek with the tips falling to, or toward, the outside corners of the eyes when the dog is at rest. The ears move slightly up and forward when at attention.\
Welsh Terrier|Coat|The coat is hard, wiry, and dense with a close-fitting thick jacket. There is a short, soft undercoat. Furnishings on muzzle, legs, and quarters are dense and wiry.\
Welsh Terrier|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are strong and muscular with well-developed second thighs and the stifles well bent. The hocks are moderately straight, parallel and short from joint to ground. The feet should be the same as in the forequarters.\
Welsh Terrier|Fun Fact|Caroline Kennedy had a Welsh named Charlie.\
Welsh Terrier|Health|Welsh Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Welsh Terrier|Grooming|The Welsh Terrier does not shed if the coat is properly maintained.\
Welsh Terrier|General Appearance|The Welsh Terrier is a sturdy, compact, rugged dog of medium size with a coarse wire-textured coat. The legs, underbody and head are tan; the jacket black (or occasionally grizzle). The tail is docked to length meant to complete the image of a "square dog" approximately as high as he is long. The movement is a terrier trot typical of the long-legged terrier. It is effortless, with good reach and drive. The Welsh Terrier is friendly, outgoing to people and other dogs, showing spirit and courage. The "Welsh Terrier expression" comes from the set, color, and position of the eyes combined with the use of the ears.\
Welsh Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Welsh Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Welsh Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Upbeat but not hyper, Welsh exercise needs are moderate.\
Welsh Terrier|History|1888 - The Welsh Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Body|Neck- The neck is well muscled, moderately arched, sufficient in length to be in balance with the body, and may have moderate dewlap around the throat. The neck, especially in mature dogs, is shrouded by a thick upstanding mane.Topline- Topline level and firm between withers and croup.Body- The chest is well developed, with reasonable spring of rib. Brisket reaching to just below elbows. Underline with pronounced (but not exaggerated) tuck-up. The back is muscular with firmly muscled loin. There is no slope or angle to the croup.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Forequarters|Shoulders- Well laid back, muscular, strongly boned, with moderate angulation to match the rear angulation. Legs: Straight, with substantial bone and muscle, well covered with short, coarse hair, feathering on the back, and with strong pasterns that have a slight slope.Feet-Cat feet. Fairly large, strong, compact, may have feathering between toes. Nails may be either black and/or white, regardless of coat color. A single dewclaw may be present on the front feet.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Head|Broad, strong with heavy brow ridges. Heavy wrinkling to be severely faulted; however a single fold extending from above the eyes down to the corner of the mouth acceptable at maturity. A correct head and expression is essential to the breed.Expression- Noble, intelligent, watchful and aloof.Eyes- Very expressive, medium size, any shade of brown. Rims to be black except in blue/grey and blue/grey and tan dogs, the darkest possible shade of grey. Eyes deep-set, well apart, almond-shaped, and slightly slanting, with tightly fitting eye rims at maturity. Any other color or shape to be severely faulted since it detracts from the typical expression.Ears- Medium size, V-shaped, pendant, set-on high, dropping forward and hanging close to head. Raised when alert, level with the top of the skull. The ear leather is thick, covered with soft short hair, and when measured, should reach the inner corner of the eye. Low-set and/or hound-like ears to be severely faulted.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Coat|In general, dogs carry noticeably more coat than bitches. The quality of the coat is of greater importance than length. Double-coated, with fairly long, thick coarse guard hair, with heavy soft undercoat in cold weather which becomes rather sparse in warmer months. Hair is fine but hard, straight and stand-off; never silky, curly or wavy. Heavy undercoat, when present, rather woolly. Neck and shoulders heavily coated, especially in dogs, giving mane-like appearance. Tail and britches densely coated and heavily feathered. The Tibetan Mastiff is shown naturally. Trimming is not acceptable except to provide a clean cut appearance of feet and hocks. Dogs are not to be penalized if shown with a summer coat.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Hindquarters|Powerful, muscular, with all parts being moderately angulated. Seen from behind, the hind legs and stifle are parallel. The hocks are strong, approximately one-third the overall length of the leg, and perpendicular. Feet - A single or double dewclaw may be present on the rear feet. Removal of rear dewclaws, if present, optional.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Fun Fact|Tibetan Mastiffs don't shed - they blow their coat once a year.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Health|Tibetan Mastiffs are generally a healthy breed.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Grooming|They shed their coat only once a year, but regular brushing is still required.\
Tibetan Mastiff|General Appearance|Noble and impressive: a large, but not a giant breed. An athletic and substantial dog, of solemn but kindly appearance. The Tibetan Mastiff stands well up on the pasterns, with strong, tight, cat feet, giving an alert appearance. The body is slightly longer than tall. The hallmarks of the breed are the head and the tail. The head is broad and impressive, with substantial back skull, the eyes deep-set and almond shaped, slightly slanted, the muzzle broad and well-padded, giving a square appearance. The typical expression of the breed is one of watchfulness. The tail and britches are well feathered and the tail is carried over the back in a single curl falling over the loin, balancing the head. The coat and heavy mane is thick, with coarse guard hair and a wooly undercoat.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Tibetan Mastiffs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Tibetan Mastiff|Exercise|Mature TMs enjoy exercise in all weather but are by no means hyperactive.\
Tibetan Mastiff|History|2007 - The Tibetan Mastiff was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Body|Well proportioned and very compact. The back is rather short, thebacklinelevel, with height at shoulder the same as at the rump.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Head|Small and rather flat on top, theskullnot too prominent or round, themuzzlenot too long, with thebiteneither undershot nor overshot and teeth sound. Either scissors bite or level bite is acceptable. The nose is black.Eyesare medium in size and not too prominent; dark in color and sparkling with a sharp, intelligent expression. Eye rims are dark.Earsare small, V-shaped, carried erect and set not too far apart.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Coat|Quality, texture and quantity of coat are of prime importance. Hair is glossy, fine and silky in texture. Coat on the body is moderately long and perfectly straight (not wavy). It may be trimmed to floor length to give ease of movement and a neater appearance, if desired. The fall on the head is long, tied with one bow in center of head or parted in the middle and tied with two bows. Hair on muzzle is very long. Hair should be trimmed short on tips of ears and may be trimmed on feet to give them a neat appearance.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Health|Yorkshire Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Fun Fact|The Yorkie became a fashionable pet in the late Victorian era.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Grooming|The beautiful long coat of the Yorkie requires regular brushing.\
Yorkshire Terrier|General Appearance|That of a long-haired toy terrier whose blue and tan coat is parted on the face and from the base of the skull to the end of the tail and hangs evenly and quite straight down each side of body. The body is neat, compact and well proportioned. The dog's high head carriage and confident manner should give the appearance of vigor and self-importance.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Yorkshire Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Yorkshire Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Yorkies are moderately active and will be happy with a daily satisfying walk.\
Yorkshire Terrier|History|1885 - The Yorkie was first recognized by the AKC.\
Norfolk Terrier|Body|Neckof medium length, strong and blending into well laid back shoulders. Leveltopline. Good width ofchest.Ribswell sprung, chest moderately deep. Strongloins.Tailmedium docked, of sufficient length to ensure a balanced outline. Straight, set on high, the base level with the topline. Not a squirrel tail.\
Norfolk Terrier|Forequarters|Well laid backshoulders. Elbows close to ribs. Short, powerfullegs, as straight as is consistent with the digging terrier. Pasterns firm.Feetround, pads thick, with strong, black nails.\
Norfolk Terrier|Head|Eyessmall, dark and oval, with black rims. Placed well apart with a sparkling, keen and intelligentexpression. Earsneatly dropped, small, with a break at the skull line, carried close to the cheek and not falling lower than the outer corner of the eye. V-shaped, slightly rounded at the tip, smooth and velvety to the touch.Skullwide, slightly rounded, with good width between the ears.Muzzleis strong and wedge shaped. Its length is one-third less than a measurement from the occiput to the well-definedstop. Jaw clean and strong. Tight-lipped with a scissorbiteand large teeth.\
Norfolk Terrier|Coat|The protective coat is hard, wiry and straight, about 1\'bd to 2 inches long, lying close to the body, with a definite undercoat. The mane on neck and shoulders is longer and also forms a ruff at the base of the ears and the throat. Moderate furnishings of harsh texture on legs. Hair on the head and ears is short and smooth, except for slight eyebrows and whiskers. Some tidying is necessary to keep the dog neat, but shaping should be heavily penalized.\
Norfolk Terrier|Hindquarters|Broad with strong, muscularthighs. Good turn ofstifle.Hockswell let down and straight when viewed from the rear.Feetas in front.\
Norfolk Terrier|Fun Fact|The Norfolk Terrier has drop ears.\
Norfolk Terrier|Health|Norfolk Terrier are generally a healthy breed.\
Norfolk Terrier|Grooming|The Norfolk's coat requires regular grooming, including brushing and stripping.\
Norfolk Terrier|General Appearance|The Norfolk Terrier, game and hardy, with expressive dropped ears, is one of the smallest of the working terriers. It is active and compact, free-moving, with good substance and bone. With its natural, weather-resistant coat and short legs, it is a "perfect demon" in the field. This versatile, agreeable breed can go to ground, bolt a fox and tackle or dispatch other small vermin, working alone or with a pack. Honorable scars from wear and tear are acceptable in the ring.\
Norfolk Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norfolk Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Norfolk Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Brisk walks, socializing, and games of fetch will expend some of their boundless energy.\
Norfolk Terrier|History|1979 - The Norfolk Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Rat Terrier|Body|The body is compact, strong and flexible with well sprung ribs. The brisket extends to the elbow.\'a0 When viewed from the front, the ribs appear to be oval. The Rat Terrier, while muscled and fit, has flat muscles that blend into the body.\'a0 The chest is moderately wide and well filled with a discernible forechest.\'a0 The underlineascends gradually with theribs extending well back to a moderate tuck-up.\'a0Back - The back is level and firm from the withers to the loin. The short loin has a slight muscular arch blending into the gently rounded croup.\
Rat Terrier|Forequarters|The shoulder blades are well laid back with flat muscles providing enough space between the shoulder blades to allow for free movement.\'a0 The shoulder blades and the upper arms are nearly equal in length and well set back so that the elbows fall directly under the highest point of the shoulder blade.\'a0 The depth of the body at the elbow is the same distance as from the elbow to the ground. The forelegs stand straight and parallel with elbows turning neither in nor out.\'a0 The pasterns are slightly sloping when viewed from the side.\'a0 The feet are oval in shape.\'a0 The toes turn neither in nor out, are compact, moderately arched, with thick pads and strong nails.\'a0 The front dewclaws may be removed.\
Rat Terrier|Head|Theheadresembles a smooth, blunt wedge from a front or profile view.\'a0 When seen from the front, the head widens gradually towards the base of the ears in an unbroken line and is well filled up under the eyes.\'a0 Theexpressionis intelligent, alert and full of interest.\'a0 Theeyesare not large.\'a0They\'a0are obliquely set wide apart\'a0and are\'a0oval in shape. \'a0Eye color varies with coat color from darkest brown to hazel.\'a0 Eye rim pigmentation\'a0corresponds with\'a0nose color\'a0and facial markings.\'a0Gray eyes are acceptable in blue or blue-fawn dogs only, being a serious fault in other colorations. Any blue in the eye(s) is a disqualification.\
Rat Terrier|Coat|Short, close lying, smooth and shiny coat.\'a0Texture\'a0varies;\'a0a\'a0very slight ruff or wave\'a0along the back is allowed, but undesirable. Any suggestion of kink or curl is cause for disqualification. Whiskers must not be removed.\'a0Absence of coat (total genetic hairlessness) is a disqualification.\
Rat Terrier|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are muscular but smooth and in balance with the forequarters. They should not be bulging or coarse.\'a0 Stifles are well-bent with short hocks that are parallel and perpendicular to the ground.\'a0 The hind feet although slightly smaller are similar to the front feet.\'a0 Rear dewclaws are removed.\
Rat Terrier|Fun Fact|The Rat Terrier is AKC\'92s 178th breed.\
Rat Terrier|Health|Rat Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Rat Terrier|Grooming|The breed sheds seasonally and requires brushing with a soft brush or rubber curry mitt.\
Rat Terrier|General Appearance|The Rat Terrier was originally bred for ratting and farm work. A multipurpose companion dog that is capable of hunting rodents and vermin above and below ground, and to course small game. He is a sturdy, compact, small-to-medium sized parti-colored dog giving the appearance of elegance and fitness, denoting speed, power and balance.\'a0 Honorable scars or a couple of broken or missing canines or incisors teeth are not to be faulted.\'a0 The following is a description of the ideal Rat Terrier.\'a0 Variations are penalized to the extent of the deviation.\
Rat Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Rat Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Rat Terrier|Exercise|This loyal, active and playful breed is at its best as a member of its human family, but may be reserved with strangers.\
Rat Terrier|History|2013 - The Rat Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|Health|Braque du Bourbonnais are generally a healthy breed.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|Fun Fact|The Braque du Bourbonnais has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Braque du Bourbonnais is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Braque du Bourbonnais|History|2011 - The Braque du Bourbonnais was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Border Collie|Body|Neckis of proportional length to the body, strong and muscular, slightly arched and blending smoothly into the shoulders.Topline-Back is level from behind the withers to the slightly arched, muscular loins, falling to a gently sloping croup.Bodyis athletic in appearance with a deep, moderately broad chest reaching no further than the point of the elbow. The rib cage is moderately long with well sprung ribs. Loins moderately deep and short, muscular, slightly arched and with a slight but distinct tuck up.\
Border Collie|Forequarters|Forelegs should be parallel when viewed from front, pasterns slightly sloping when viewed from side. Because sufficient length of leg is crucial for the type of work the breed is required to do, the distance from the wither to the elbow is slightly less than from the elbow to the ground and legs that are too short in proportion to the rest of the body are a serious fault. The shoulder blades are long, well laid back and well-angulated to the upper arm. Shoulder blades and upper arms are equal in length. There is sufficient width between the tops of the shoulder blades to allow for the characteristic crouch when approaching and moving stock. The elbows are neither in nor out. Feet are compact, oval in shape; pads deep and strong, toes moderately arched and close together with strong nails of moderate length. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Border Collie|Head|Expressionis intelligent, alert, eager, and full of interest.Eyesare set well apart, of moderate size, oval in shape. The color encompasses the full range of brown eyes, dogs having body colors other than black may have noticeably lighter eye color. Blue eyes (with one, both or part of one or both eyes being blue) in dogs other than merle, are acceptable but not preferred. Eye rims should be fully pigmented, lack thereof considered a fault according to degree.Earsare of medium size, set well apart, one or both carried erect and/or semi-erect (varying from one-quarter to three-quarters of the ear erect). When semi-erect, the tips may fall forward or outward to the side. Ears are sensitive and mobile.\
Border Collie|Coat|Two varieties are permissible, both having close-fitting, dense, weather resistant double coats with the top coat either straight or wavy and coarser in texture than the undercoat which is soft, short and dense. The rough variety is medium in length without being excessive. Forelegs, haunches, chest and underside are feathered and the coat on face, ears, feet, fronts of legs is short and smooth. The smooth variety is short over entire body, is usually coarser in texture than the rough variety and may have slight feathering on forelegs, haunches, chest and ruff. Neither coat type is preferred over the other. Seasonal shedding is normal and should not be penalized. The Border Collie's purpose as an actively working herding dog shall be clearly evident in its presentation.\
Border Collie|Hindquarters|Broad and muscular, in profile sloping gracefully to the low set tail. The thighs are long, broad, deep and muscular. Stifles are well turned with strong hocks that may be either parallel or very slightly turned in. Dewclaws should be removed. Feet, although slightly smaller, are the same as front.\
Border Collie|Fun Fact|The Border Collie was featured in the hit movie, "Babe".\
Border Collie|Health|Border Collies are generally a healthy and robust breed.\
Border Collie|Grooming|Border Collies are an active, outdoorsy breed with a long coat which tends to pick up debris throughout its work day.\
Border Collie|General Appearance|The Border Collie is a well balanced, medium-sized dog of athletic appearance, displaying style and agility in equal measure with soundness and strength. Its hard, muscular body conveys the impression of effortless movement and endless endurance. The Border Collie is extremely intelligent, with its keen, alert expression being a very important characteristic of the breed. Any aspect of structure or temperament that would impede the dog's ability to function as a herding dog should be severely faulted. The Border Collie is, and should remain, a natural and unspoiled true working sheep dog whose conformation is described herein. Honorable scars and broken teeth incurred in the line of duty are acceptable.\
Border Collie|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Border Collies is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Border Collie|Exercise|The uncanny intelligence, athleticism, and trainability of Border Collies have a perfect outlet in agility work.\
Border Collie|History|1995 - The Border Collie was officially recognized by the AKC\
Thai Ridgeback|Fun Fact|The Thai Ridgeback has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
German Pinscher|Forequarters|The sloping shoulder blades are strongly muscled, yet flat and well laid back, forming an angle of approximately 45 degrees to the horizontal. They are well angled and slope forward, forming an approximately 90 degree angle to the upper arm, which is equal in length to the shoulder blade. Such angulation permits the maximum forward extension of the forelegs without binding or effort.\'a0Forelegs-straight and well boned, perfectly vertical when viewed from all sides, set moderately apart with elbows set close to the body. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed.\'a0Pasterns-firm and almost perpendicular to the ground.\'a0Feet-short, round, compact with firm dark pads and dark nails. The toes\'a0are well closed and arched like cat feet.\
German Pinscher|Head|Powerful, elongated without the occiput being too pronounced and resembles a blunt wedge in both frontal and profile views. The total length of theheadfrom the tip of the nose to the occiput is one half the length from the withers to the base of the tail resulting in a ratio of approximately 1:2.Expression-sharp, alert and responsive.Eyes-medium size, dark, oval in shape without the appearance of bulging. The eyelid should be tight and the eyeball non-protruding.Ears-set high, symmetrical, and carried erect when cropped. If uncropped, they are V-shaped with a folding pleat, or small standing ears carried evenly upright.\
German Pinscher|Coat|Short and dense, smooth and close lying. Shiny and covers the body without bald spots. A hard coat should not be penalized.\
German Pinscher|Hindquarters|The thighs are strongly muscled and in balance with forequarters. The stifles are well bent and well boned, with good angulation. When viewed from the rear, the hocks are parallel to each other.\
German Pinscher|Fun Fact|The German Pinscher is known for its vermin hunting ability.\
German Pinscher|Health|German Pinschers are generally a healthy breed.\
German Pinscher|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
German Pinscher|General Appearance|The German Pinscher is a medium size, short coated dog, elegant in appearance with a strong square build and moderate body structure, muscular and powerful for endurance and agility. Energetic, watchful, alert, agile, fearless, determined, intelligent and loyal, the German Pinscher has the prerequisites to be an excellent watchdog and companion. The German Pinscher is examined on the ground.\
German Pinscher|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the German Pinscher is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
German Pinscher|Exercise|Very Active; High-energy GPs are quick, athletic, and enthusiastic.\
German Pinscher|History|2003 - The German Pinscher was officially recognized by the AKC\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Body|Neck-Strong and slightly arched, of medium length, free from throatiness and flowing freely into moderately laid-back shoulders. Backline-The back, that portion of the body from the rear point of the withers to the beginning of the loin, is strong and level. The loin, that part of the body extending from the end of the rib cage to the start of the pelvis, is short and muscular. The croup, that portion of the body from the start of the pelvis to the tail set-on, is only slightly sloping.Body- Chest is decidedly deep and not too wide, oval in cross-section, with brisket reaching elbow. While the impression of the chest should be of depth not width, the chest is not pinched or narrow. The ribs are well-sprung, neither barrel-shaped nor slab-sided, and extend well back into a deep, powerful loin with a moderate tuck-up of flank\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Forequarters|Shoulder blades are very long, well covered with muscle, and are moderately laid back at about a 55 degree angle. The width between shoulder blades is adequate to allow enough flexibility to easily retrieve game. Upper arm bones are about equal in length with shoulder blades and laid back at approximately the same angle as the blades, meaning the forelegs are set under the withers. The equal length of shoulder blade and upper arm bone and the balanced angulation between the two allows for good extension of the front legs. The forelegs are straight with strong, true pasterns.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Head|Theheadis a longer-than-wide wedge, readily distinguishable from that of all other retriever breeds, and of a size in balance with the body. Length of foreface is equal, or nearly equal, to length of backskull and, when viewed in profile, the planes are parallel. The stop is shallow and sloping. At the point of joining, the width of foreface may be slightly less than the width of the backskull but blending of the two should be smooth. The head has a nearly straight, continuous taper to the nose and is clean cut, not coarse, blocky or cheeky.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Coat|The coat is a distinguishing characteristic and quite different from that of any other breed. The body coat is a thick mass of small, tight, crisp curls, lying close to the skin, resilient, water resistant, and of sufficient density to provide protection against weather, water and punishing cover. Curls also extend up the entire neck to the occiput, down the thigh and back leg to at least the hock, and over the entire tail. Elsewhere, the coat is short, smooth and straight, including on the forehead, face, front of forelegs, and feet. A patch of uncurled hair behind the withers or bald patches anywhere on the body, including bald strips down the back of the legs or a triangular bald patch on the throat, should be severely penalized. A looser, more open curl is acceptable on the ears.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Hindquarters|Strong and in balance with front angulation. Thighs are powerful with muscling carrying well down into the second thigh. Stifle is of moderate bend. The hocks are strong and true, turning neither in nor out, with hock joint well let down.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Fun Fact|The Curly-Coated Retriever is one of the oldest breeds classified as retrievers.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Health|Curly-Coated Retrievers are generally a healthy breed.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Grooming|A single-coated breed with no undercoat or fur - only hair- the coat is very easy to care for.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|General Appearance|This smartly upstanding, multi-purpose hunting retriever is recognized by most canine historians as one of the oldest of the retrieving breeds. Developed in England, the Curly was long a favorite of English gamekeepers. Prized for innate field ability, courage and indomitable perseverance, a correctly built and tempered Curly will work as long as there is work to be done, retrieving both fur and feather in the heaviest of cover and the iciest of waters. To work all day a Curly must be balanced and sound, strong and robust, and quick and agile.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Curly-Coated Retrievers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|Exercise|Very Active; They live for outdoor exercise, like swimming; bored, underemployed Curlies are a handful.\
Curly-Coated Retriever|History|1924 - The Curly-Coated Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC\
Russian Tsvetnaya Bolonka|Fun Fact|The Russian Tsvetnaya Bolonka has been assigned the Toy Group designation.\
American Foxhound|Body|Neckrising free and light from the shoulders, strong in substance yet not loaded, of medium length. The throat clean and free from folds of skin, a slight wrinkle below the angle of the jaw, however, is allowable. Defects-A thick, short, cloddy neck carried on a line with the top of the shoulders. Throat showing dewlap and folds of skin to a degree termed "throatiness".Shoulders sloping-clean, muscular, not heavy or loaded-conveying the idea of freedom of action with activity and strength. Chest should be deep for lung space, narrower in proportion to depth than the English hound-28 inches (girth) in a 23-inch hound being good. Well-sprung ribs-back ribs should extend well back-a three-inch flank allowing springiness.\
American Foxhound|Coat|A close, hard, hound coat of medium length. Defects-A short thin coat, or of a soft quality.\
American Foxhound|Health|American Foxhounds are a generally healthy breed.\
American Foxhound|Fun Fact|The American Foxhound's origins date back to the early 1700\'92s in Virginia and Maryland.\
American Foxhound|Grooming|Their short hard coats require weekly brushing.\
American Foxhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Foxhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Foxhound|Exercise|Very Active. They could be called \'93Springsteen hounds\'94 because, baby, they were born to run; lots of exercise required.\
American Foxhound|History|1886 - The American Foxhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Forequarters|Shoulderslong, well laid back shoulder blade withupper armof approximately equal length to allow for efficient reach. Musculature wiry rather than bulky.Elbowsclean, close to the body and set well back under the withers.Forelegsstraight and strong with medium bone of good quality.Pasternsslightly sloping and strong. Dewclaws-Removal of dewclaws is optional.Feetoval or round. Medium sized and tight with well arched toes and thick pads.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Head|The long, clean, well moldedheadis adequate in size and strength to retrieve a large pheasant, duck or hare with ease.Expressionalert, intelligent and kind.Eyesare set widely apart. Medium sized, almond shaped, dark brown or hazel; not large, round or yellow. Eye rims are self-colored and tight.Earsrelatively small, well set on, lying close to the side of the head and thickly feathered. Not low set (houndlike or setterish).Nose-Large open nostrils. Black on black dogs, brown on liver dogs.Lipsfairly tight, firm, clean and dry to minimize the retention of feathers.Jawslong and strong, capable of carrying a hare or a pheasant.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Coat|Coat is of moderate length density and fullness, with a high lustre. The ideal coat is straight and flat lying. A slight waviness is permissible but the coat is not curly, wooly, short, silky or fluffy. The Flat-Coat is a working retriever and the coat must provide protection from all types of weather, water and ground cover. This requires a coat of sufficient texture, length and fullness to allow for adequate insulation. When the dog is in full coat the ears, front, chest, back of forelegs, thighs and underside of tail are thickly feathered without being bushy, stringy or silky. Mane of longer heavier coat on the neck extending over the withers and shoulders is considered typical, especially in the male dog, and can cause the neck to appear thicker and the withers higher, sometimes causing the appearance of a dip behind the withers. Since the Flat-Coat is a hunting retriever, the feathering is not excessively long.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Hindquarters|Powerful with angulation in balance with the front assembly.Upper thighspowerful and well muscled.Stifle-Good turn of stifle with sound, strong joint.Second thighs(Stifle to hock joint)-Second or lower thigh as long as or only slightly longer than upper thigh.Hock-Hock joint strong, well let down.Dewclaws-There are no hind dewclaws.Feetoval or round. Medium sized and tight with well arched toes and thick pads.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Fun Fact|The Flatcoat developed out of the same "Labrador" family as the well-known Labrador Retriever.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Health|Flat-Coated Retrievers are generally a healthy breed.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Grooming|Among Sporting breeds, the Flat-Coat is easy to maintain, needing only occasional brushing and bathing.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|General Appearance|The distinctive and most important features of the Flat-Coat are the silhouette (both moving and standing), smooth effortless movement, head type, coat and character. In silhouette the Flat-Coat has a long, strong, clean, "one piece" head, which is unique to the breed. Free from exaggeration of stop or cheek, the head is set well into a moderately long neck which flows smoothly into well laid back shoulders. A level topline combined with a deep, long rib cage tapering to a moderate tuck-up create the impression of a blunted triangle. The brisket is well developed and the forechest forms a prominent prow. This utilitarian retriever is well balanced, strong, but elegant; never cobby, short legged or rangy. The coat is thick and flat lying, and the legs and tail are well feathered. A proud carriage, responsive attitude, waving tail and overall look of functional strength, quality, style and symmetry complete the picture of the typical Flat-Coat.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Flat-Coated Retrievers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|Exercise|Very Active; Highly energetic gundogs, Flat-Coats need lots of outdoorsy exercise.\
Flat-Coated Retriever|History|1909 - The Flat-Coated Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC\
Kai Ken|Health|Kai Kens are generally a healthy breed.\
Kai Ken|Fun Fact|The Kai Ken has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Kai Ken|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush.\
Kai Ken|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Kai Kens is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Kai Ken|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Kai Ken|History|1997 - The Kai Ken has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Labrador Retriever|Body|The Labrador should be short-coupled, with good spring of ribs tapering to a moderately wide chest. The Labrador should not be narrow chested; giving the appearance of hollowness between the front legs, nor should it have a wide spreading, bulldog-like front. Correct chest conformation will result in tapering between the front legs that allows unrestricted forelimb movement. Chest breadth that is either too wide or too narrow for efficient movement and stamina is incorrect. Slab-sided individuals are not typical of the breed; equally objectionable are rotund or barrel chested specimens. The underline is almost straight, with little or no tuck-up in mature animals. Loins should be short, wide and strong; extending to well developed, powerful hindquarters. When viewed from the side, the Labrador Retriever shows a well-developed, but not exaggerated forechest.\
Labrador Retriever|Forequarters|Forequarters should be muscular, well coordinated and balanced with the hindquarters. Shoulders-The shoulders are well laid-back, long and sloping, forming an angle with the upper arm of approximately 90 degrees that permits the dog to move his forelegs in an easy manner with strong forward reach. Ideally, the length of the shoulder blade should equal the length of the upper arm. Straight shoulder blades, short upper arms or heavily muscled or loaded shoulders, all restricting free movement, are incorrect. Front Legs-When viewed from the front, the legs should be straight with good strong bone. Too much bone is as undesirable as too little bone, and short legged, heavy boned individuals are not typical of the breed. Viewed from the side, the elbows should be directly under the withers, and the front legs should be perpendicular to the ground and well under the body. The elbows should be close to the ribs without looseness. Tied-in elbows or being "out at the elbows" interfere with free movement and are serious faults. Pasterns should be strong and short and should slope slightly from the perpendicular line of the leg.\
Labrador Retriever|Head|The\'a0head\'a0should be clean-cut and free from fleshy cheeks; the bony structure of the skull chiseled beneath the eye with no prominence in the cheek. The skull may show some median line; the occipital bone is not conspicuous in mature dogs. Lips should not be squared off or pendulous, but fall away in a curve toward the throat. A wedge-shape head, or a head long and narrow in muzzle and back skull is incorrect as are massive, cheeky heads. The jaws are powerful and free from snippiness- the\'a0muzzle\'a0neither long and narrow nor short and stubby.\
Labrador Retriever|Coat|The coat is a distinctive feature of the Labrador Retriever. It should be short, straight and very dense, giving a fairly hard feeling to the hand. The Labrador should have a soft, weather-resistant undercoat that provides protection from water, cold and all types of ground cover. A slight wave down the back is permissible.\
Labrador Retriever|Hindquarters|The Labrador's hindquarters are broad, muscular and well-developed from the hip to the hock with well-turned stifles and strong short hocks. Viewed from the rear, the hind legs are straight and parallel. Viewed from the side, the angulation of the rear legs is in balance with the front. The hind legs are strongly boned, muscled with moderate angulation at the stifle, and powerful, clearly defined thighs. The stifle is strong and there is no slippage of the patellae while in motion or when standing. The hock joints are strong, well let down and do not slip or hyper-extend while in motion or when standing. Angulation of both stifle and hock joint is such as to achieve the optimal balance of drive and traction. When standing the rear toes are only slightly behind the point of the rump.\
Labrador Retriever|Fun Fact|There are three acceptable colors in Labradors: Black, yellow, and chocolate.\
Labrador Retriever|Health|Labrador Retrievers are generally a healthy breed.\
Labrador Retriever|Grooming|A double-coated breed which sheds seasonally, regular grooming keeps his coat at its water-resistant best.\
Labrador Retriever|General Appearance|The Labrador Retriever is a strongly built, medium-sized, short-coupled, dog possessing a sound, athletic, well-balanced conformation that enables it to function as a retrieving gun dog; the substance and soundness to hunt waterfowl or upland game for long hours under difficult conditions; the character and quality to win in the show ring; and the temperament to be a family companion. Physical features and mental characteristics should denote a dog bred to perform as an efficient Retriever of game with a stable temperament suitable for a variety of pursuits beyond the hunting environment.The most distinguishing characteristics of the Labrador Retriever are its short, dense, weather resistant coat; an "otter" tail; a clean-cut head with broad back skull and moderate stop; powerful jaws; and its "kind," friendly eyes, expressing character, intelligence and good temperament.\
Labrador Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Labrador Retriever is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Labrador Retriever|Exercise|Very Active; Labs are high-spirited and not afraid to show it.\
Labrador Retriever|History|1917 - The Labrador Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Appenzeller Sennenhunde|Fun Fact|The Appenzeller Sennenhunde is also known as the Appenzeller Mountain Dog.\
Shikoku|Health|Shikokus are generally a healthy breed.\
Shikoku|Fun Fact|The Shikoku has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Shikoku|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or slicker.\
Shikoku|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Shikoku is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Shikoku|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Shikoku|History|2014 - The Shikoku has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since October 2014.\
Bergamasco|Forequarters|The shoulders are massive and strong. The shoulder blade is moderately laid back, about 60 degrees from the horizontal. The shoulder blades should be tightly knit. The upper arm is just slightly longer than the shoulder blade. The angle formed by humerus and shoulder blade is about 115 degrees. The vertical forearm is about the same length as the upper arm and is placed so that the point of the elbow is on a vertical line failing from the tops of the shoulder blade. The elbows are neither close to the body nor out. The wrist follows the vertical line of the forearm and is very mobile. The pasterns are straight when viewed from the front, and slightly sloping when viewed from the side (10 percent from vertical).\
Bergamasco|Head|Theheadis long, more or less, proportionate to the size of the dog, with the skull and muzzle of equal length, parallel to one another, and joined at a pronounced stop. The skin on the head is tight with no wrinkles.Eyes- The eyes are large, oval, and set just slightly obliquely. Eye color is brown, with the darkness of the color varying with the color of the coat. The eye rims are tight-fitting and black. The expression is attentive and calm. Disqualifications - Any lack of pigmentation of the eye rims; one (or two) full blue eye.Ears- The ears are soft and thin and hang down on either side of the face. The ears are set on high. At its widest point, the ear is from 2\'bd to 3 inches wide. Ear length does not exceed half the length of the head, and shorter is preferred. The top two-thirds of the ear is triangular in shape, with slightly rounded tips. When the dog is alert, the ears prick up at the base, with the top two-thirds semi-drooping. Viewed from the side, the ears appear to be an extension of the curve of the back of the neck. The ears are covered with soft, slightly wavy hair, forming fringes at the tip.\
Bergamasco|Coat|The Bergamasco coat is made up of three types of hair: Undercoat, "goat hair," and outer coat. The undercoat is short, dense, and of fine texture. It is oily to the touch and forms a waterproof layer against the skin. The "goat hair" is long, straight, and rough in texture. The outer coat is woolly and somewhat finer in texture than the "goat hair." The "goat hair" and outer coat are not distributed evenly over the dog and it is this pattern of distribution that is responsible for the formation of the characteristic flocks (strands of hair weaved together creating flat layers of felted hair).\
Bergamasco|Hindquarters|Pelvis slopes at 35 degrees from horizontal. The upper thigh is long, wide, and well muscled. The upper thigh slopes downward and forward at a 95 degree angle from the pelvis. The lower thigh is as long as the upper, with strong bone and lean muscles. It slopes downward and backward, forming an angle of about 105 to 110 degrees at the stifle (femur-tibia). There is a well-defined furrow between the tendon and the bone above the hock. The distance from the point of hock to the ground is no less than 25 percent of the height at the withers. Viewed from behind, the rear pasterns should be vertical and parallel to one another. Viewed from the side, the rear pasterns are vertical and placed so that the hocks just slightly extend past a vertical line dropped from the point of buttock.\
Bergamasco|Fun Fact|The Bergamasco is also known as the Cane da Pastore Bergamasco.\
Bergamasco|Health|Bergamascos are generally a healthy breed.\
Bergamasco|Grooming|The breed's unique coat is not difficult to maintain.\
Bergamasco|General Appearance|The Bergamasco is a muscular, heavy-boned herding dog with a large head and a thick tail that hangs down to the hock and curves slightly upward at the end. The entire dog is covered with an abundant coat that forms mats. The Bergamasco is compact in profile but is just slightly longer than tall.The Bergamasco's characteristic feature is its unique coat, made up of three types of hair. The coat forms flocks (strands of hair weaved together creating flat layers of felted hair) or loose mats, which cover the dog's body and legs, and protect the dog from weather and predators. The hair on the head is typically long and hangs over the eyes.\
Bergamasco|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bergamascos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bergamasco|Exercise|The Bergamasco needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Bergamasco|History|2015 - The Bergamasco was officially recognized by the AKC\
Australian Terrier|Body|Neck- Long, slightly arched and strong, blending smoothly into well laid back shoulders.Topline- Level and firm.Body- The body is of sturdy structure with ribs well-sprung but not rounded, forming a chest reaching slightly below the elbows with a distinct keel. The loin is strong and fairly short with slight tuck-up.\'a0Faults - Cobbiness, too long in loin.Tail- Set on high and carried erect at a twelve to one o'clock position, docked in balance with the overall dog leaving slightly less than one half, a good hand-hold when mature.\
Australian Terrier|Head|Theheadis long and strong. The length of the muzzle is equal to the length of the skull.Expression- Keen and intelligent.Eyes- Small, dark brown to black (the darker the better), keen in expression, set well apart. Rims are black, oval in shape.\'a0Faults - Light-colored or protruding eyes.Ears- Small, erect and pointed; set high on the skull yet well apart, carried erect without any tendency to flare obliquely off the skull.Skull-Viewed from the front or side is long and flat, slightly longer than it is wide and full between the eyes, with slight but definite stop.Muzzle- Strong and powerful with slight fill under the eyes. The jaws are powerful.\'a0Nose - Black. A desirable breed characteristic is an inverted V-shaped area free of hair extending from the nose up the bridge of the muzzle, varying in length in the mature dog.\'a0Lips - Tight and dark brown- or black-rimmed.Bite- Scissors with teeth of good size.\
Australian Terrier|Coat|Outer Coat- Harsh and straight; 2\'bd inches all over the body except the tail, pasterns, rear legs from the hocks down, and the feet which are kept free of long hair. Hair on the ears is kept very short.Undercoat- Short and soft.Furnishings- Softer than body coat. The neck is well furnished with hair, which forms a protective ruff blending into the apron. The forelegs are slightly feathered to the pasterns.Topknot- Covering only the top of the skull; of finer and softer texture than the rest of the coat.\
Australian Terrier|Hindquarters|Strong; legs well angulated at the stifles and hocks, short and perpendicular from the hocks to the ground. Upper and lower thighs are well muscled. Viewed from behind the rear legs are straight from the hip joints to the ground and in the same plane as the forelegs.\'a0Faults -Lack of muscular development or excessive muscularity.\'a0Feet-(See under Forequarters.)\
Australian Terrier|Fun Fact|The Australian Terrier is adaptable to most climates.\
Australian Terrier|Health|Australian Terriers are generally quite healthy and should require a minimum of medical care.\
Australian Terrier|Grooming|The Australian Terrier is an easy-care breed, needing minimal brushing and combing to keep neat.\
Australian Terrier|General Appearance|A small, sturdy, medium-boned working terrier, rather long in proportion to height with pricked ears and docked tail. Blue and tan, solid sandy or solid red in color, with harsh-textured outer coat, a distinctive ruff and apron, and a soft, silky topknot. As befits their heritage as versatile workers, Australian Terriers are sound and free moving with good reach and drive. Their expression keen and intelligent; their manner spirited and self-assured.\
Australian Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Australian Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Australian Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Upbeat and lively.\
Australian Terrier|History|1960 - The Australian Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Briard|Body|Neck- strong and well constructed. The neck is in the shape of a truncated cone, clearing the shoulders well. It is strongly muscled and has good length.Topline- the Briard is constructed with a very slight incline, downward from the prominent withers to the back which is straight, to the broad loin and the croup which is slightly inclined. The croup is well muscled and slightly sloped to give a well-rounded finish. The topline is strong, never swayed nor roached.Body- the chest is broad and deep with moderately curved ribs, egg-shaped in form, the ribs not too rounded. The breastbone is moderately advanced in front, descending smoothly to the level of the elbows and shaped to give good depth to the chest. The abdomen is moderately drawn up but still presents good volume.\
Briard|Forequarters|Shoulder blades are long and sloping forming a 45-degree angle with the horizontal, firmly attached by strong muscles and blending smoothly with the withers. Legs the legs are powerfully muscled with strong bone. The forelegs are vertical when viewed from the side except the pasterns are very slightly inclined. Viewed from the front or rear, the legs are straight and parallel to the median line of the body, never turned inward or outward. The distance between the front legs is equal to the distance between the rear legs. The construction of the legs is of utmost importance, determining the dog's ability to work and his resistance to fatigue. Dewclaws - dewclaws on the forelegs may or may not be removed. Feet - strong and rounded, being slightly oval in shape. The feet travel straight forward in the line of movement. The toes are strong, well arched and compact. The pads are well developed, compact and elastic, covered with strong tissue. The nails are always black and hard.\
Briard|Head|Theheadof a Briard always gives the impression of length, having sufficient width without being cumbersome. The correct length of a good head, measured from the occiput to the tip of the nose, is about forty percent (40%) of the height of the dog at the withers. There is no objection to a slightly longer head, especially if the animal tends to a longer body line. Viewed from above, from the front or in profile, the fully-coated silhouette gives the impression of two rectangular forms, equal in length but differing in height and width, blending together rather abruptly. The larger rectangle is the skull and the other forms the muzzle. The head joins the neck in a right angle and is held proudly alert. The head is sculptured in clean lines, without jowls or excess flesh on the sides, or under the eyes or temples.\
Briard|Coat|The outer coat is coarse, hard and dry (making a dry rasping sound between the fingers). It lies down flat, falling naturally in long, slightly waving locks, having the sheen of good health. On the shoulders the length of the hair is generally six inches or more. The undercoat is fine and tight on all the body. The head is well covered with hair which lies down, forming a natural part in the center. The eyebrows do not lie flat but, instead, arch up and out in a curve that lightly veils the eyes. The hair is never so abundant that it masks the form of the head or completely covers the eyes.\
Briard|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are powerful, providing flexible, almost tireless movement. The pelvis slopes at a 30-degree angle from the horizontal and forms a right angle with the upper leg bone. Legs viewed from the side, the legs are well angulated with the metatarsus slightly inclined, the hock making an angle of 135 degrees. Dewclaws two dewclaws are required on each rear leg, placed low on the leg, giving a wide base to the foot. Occasionally the nail may break off completely. The dog shall not be penalized for the missing nail so long as the digit itself is present. Ideally the dewclaws form additional functioning toes. Disqualification - anything less than two dewclaws on each rear leg. Feet - if the rear toes turn out very slightly when the hocks and metatarsus are parallel, then the position of the feet is correct.\
Briard|Fun Fact|In early times, Briards were used to defend their charges against wolves and poachers, but they eventually became more peaceful herding dogs.\
Briard|Health|Briards are generally a healthy breed.\
Briard|Grooming|Grooming-wise, the breed\'92s long double coat requires brushing every day to prevent mats.\
Briard|General Appearance|A dog of handsome form. Vigorous and alert, powerful without coarseness, strong in bone and muscle, exhibiting the strength and agility required of the herding dog. Dogs lacking these qualities, however concealed by the coat, are to be penalized.\
Briard|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Briards is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Briard|Exercise|Briards pack so much loyalty and love into their ample frames that they\'92re often described as a \'93heart wrapped in fur."\
Briard|History|1928 - The Briard was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Field Spaniel|Forequarters|Shoulders blades are oblique and sloping. The upper arm is closed-set; elbows are directly below the withers, and turn neither in nor out. Bone is flat. Forelegs are straight and well boned to the feet. Pasterns are moderately sloping but strong. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet face forward and are large, rounded, and webbed, with strong, well arched relatively tight toes and thick pads.\
Field Spaniel|Head|Conveys the impression of high breeding, character and nobility, and must be in proportion to the size of the dog.Expression-Grave, gentle and intelligent.Eyes-Almond in shape, open and of medium size; set moderately wide and deep. Color: dark hazel to dark brown. The lids are tight and show no haw; rims comparable to nose in color.Ears-Moderately long (reaching the end of the muzzle) and wide. Set on slightly below eye level: pendulous, hanging close to the head; rolled and well feathered. Leather is moderately heavy, supple, and rounded at the tip.\
Field Spaniel|Coat|Single; moderately long; flat or slightly wavy; silky; and glossy; dense and water-repellent. Moderate setter-like feathering adorns the chest, underbody, backs of the legs, buttocks, and may also be present on the second thigh and underside of the tail. Pasterns have clean outlines to the ground. There is short, soft hair between the toes. Overabundance of coat, or cottony texture, impractical for field work should be penalized.\
Field Spaniel|Hindquarters|Strong and driving; stifles and hocks only moderately bent. Hocks well let down; pasterns relatively short, strong and parallel when viewed from the rear. Hips moderately broad and muscular; upper thigh broad and powerful; second thigh well muscled. Bone corresponds to that of the forelegs. No dewclaws.\
Field Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Field Spaniel is known for his level-headedness and perseverance.\
Field Spaniel|Health|Field Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
Field Spaniel|Grooming|The Field Spaniel has a medium-length coat (less than other Spaniel breeds) which makes grooming fairly easy.\
Field Spaniel|General Appearance|The Field Spaniel is a combination of beauty and utility. It is a well balanced, substantial hunter-companion of medium size, built for activity and endurance in a heavy cover and water. It has a noble carriage; a proud but docile attitude; is sound and free moving. Symmetry, gait, attitude and purpose are more important than any one part.\
Field Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Field Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Field Spaniel|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Tranquil around the house but vigorous and game for anything when at play.\
Field Spaniel|History|1894 - The Field Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Pointer|Body|Neck: Long, dry, muscular, and slightly arched, springing cleanly from the shoulders.Shoulders:Long, thin, and sloping. The top of blades close together.Back:Strong and solid with only a slight rise from croup to top of shoulders. Loin of moderate length, powerful and slightly arched. Croup falling only slightly to base of tail. Tuck-up should be apparent, but not exaggerated.\
Pointer|Forequarters|Elbows well let down, directly under the withers and truly parallel so as to work just clear of the body. Forelegs straight and with oval bone. Knee joint never to knuckle over. Pasterns of moderate length, perceptibly finer in bone than the leg, and slightly slanting. Chest, deep rather than wide, must not hinder free action of forelegs. The breastbone bold, without being unduly prominent. The ribs well sprung, descending as low as the elbow-point.\
Pointer|Head|Ears-Set on at eye level. When hanging naturally, they should reach just below the lower jaw, close to the head, with little or no folding. They should be somewhat pointed at the tip-never round-and soft and thin in leather.Eyes-Of ample size, rounded and intense. The eye color should be dark in contrast with the color of the markings, the darker the better.\
Pointer|Coat|Short, dense, smooth with a sheen.\
Pointer|Hindquarters|Muscular and powerful with great propelling leverage. Thighs long and well developed. Stifles well bent. The hocks clean; the legs straight as viewed from behind. Decided angulation is the mark of power and endurance.\
Pointer|Fun Fact|The first Pointers appeared in England about 1650.\
Pointer|Health|Pointers are generally a healthy breed.\
Pointer|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming.\
Pointer|General Appearance|The Pointer is bred primarily for sport afield; he should unmistakably look and act the part. The ideal specimen gives the immediate impression of compact power and agile grace; the head noble, proudly carried; the expression intelligent and alert; the muscular body bespeaking both staying power and dash. Here is an animal whose every movement shows him to be a wide-awake, hard-driving hunting dog possessing stamina, courage, and the desire to go. And in his expression are the loyalty and devotion of a true friend of man.\
Pointer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pointer is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Pointer|Exercise|Pointers are active!\
Pointer|History|1884 - The Pointer was officially recognized by the AKC\
Irish Terrier|Head|Long, but in nice proportion to the rest of the body; the skull flat, rather narrow between the ears, and narrowing slightly toward the eyes; free from wrinkle, with the stop hardly noticeable except in profile. The foreface must not fall away appreciably between or below the eyes; instead, the modeling should be delicate. An exaggerated foreface, or a noticeably short foreface, disturbs the proper balance of the head and is not desirable. The foreface and the skull from occiput to stop should be approximately equal in length.\
Irish Terrier|Coat|Should be dense and wiry in texture, rich in quality, having a broken appearance, but still lying fairly close to the body, the hairs growing so closely and strongly together that when parted with the fingers the skin is hardly visible; free of softness or silkiness, and not so long as to alter the outline of the body, particularly in the hindquarters. On the sides of the body the coat is never as harsh as on the back and quarters, but it should be plentiful and of good texture. At the base of the stiff outer coat there should be a growth of finer and softer hair, lighter in color, termed the undercoat. Single coats, which are without any undercoat, and wavy coats are undesirable; the curly and the kinky coats are most objectionable.\
Irish Terrier|Hindquarters|Should be strong and muscular; thighs powerful; hocks near the ground; stifles moderately bent.\
Irish Terrier|Fun Fact|The Irish Terrier has the distinction of being the only all-red terrier.\
Irish Terrier|Health|Irish Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Irish Terrier|Grooming|The Irish Terrier's short coat requires regular brushing, stripping and trimming to keep it in good condition.\
Irish Terrier|General Appearance|The over-all appearance of the Irish Terrier is important. In conformation he must be more than a sum of his parts. He must be all-of-a piece, a balanced vital picture of symmetry, proportion and harmony. Furthermore, he must convey character. This terrier must be active, lithe and wiry in movement, with great animation; sturdy and strong in substance and bone structure, but at the same time free from clumsiness, for speed, power and endurance are most essential. The Irish Terrier must be neither "cobby" nor "cloddy," but should be built on lines of speed with a graceful, racing outline.\
Irish Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Irish Terrier is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Irish Terrier|Exercise|Irish Terriers are great athletes and need regular exercise so a fenced backyard is ideal.\
Irish Terrier|History|1885 - The Irish Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Keeshond|Body|The\'a0body\'a0should be compact with a short, straight back sloping slightly downward toward the hindquarters: well ribbed, barrel well rounded, short in loin, belly moderately tucked up, deep and strong of chest.\
Keeshond|Forequarters|Forelegs should be straight seen from any angle. Pasterns are strong with a slight slope. Legs must be of good bone in proportion to the overall dog. Shoulder to upper arm angulation is between slight to moderate.\
Keeshond|Head|The head should be well-proportioned to the body and wedge-shaped when viewed from above - not only the muzzle, but the whole head should give this impression when the ears are drawn back by covering the nape of the neck and the ears with one hand. Head in profile should exhibit a definite stop.\
Keeshond|Coat|The body should be abundantly covered with long, straight, harsh hair standing well out from a thick, downy undercoat. Head, including muzzle, skull and ears, should be covered with smooth, soft, short hair-velvety in texture on the ears. The neck is covered with a mane-more profuse in the male-sweeping from under the jaw and covering the whole of the front part of the shoulders and chest, as well as the top part of the shoulders. The hair on the legs should be smooth and short, except for feathering on the front legs and "trousers" on the hind legs. Hind legs should be profusely feathered down to the hocks-not below. The hair on the tail should form a rich plume. Coat must not part down the back. The Keeshond is to be shown in a natural state with trimming permissible only on feet, pasterns, hocks and - if desired - whiskers.\
Keeshond|Hindquarters|Angulation in rear should be between slight to moderate to complement the forequarters, creating balance and typical gait. Hindquarters are well muscled with hocks perpendicular to the ground.\
Keeshond|Fun Fact|The Keeshond originated in Holland.\
Keeshond|Health|Keehonden are generally a healthy breed.\
Keeshond|Grooming|For their thick coats, twice-weekly brushing is sufficient.\
Keeshond|General Appearance|The Keeshond (pronounced kayz-hawnd) is a natural, handsome dog of well-balanced, short-coupled body, attracting attention not only by his coloration, alert carriage, and intelligent expression, but also by his stand-off coat, his richly plumed tail well curled over his back, his foxlike expression, and his small pointed ears. His coat is very thick around the neck, fore part of the shoulders and chest, forming a lion-like ruff-more profuse in the male. His rump and hind legs, down to the hocks, are also thickly coated, forming the characteristic "trousers." His head, ears, and lower legs are covered with thick, short hair.\
Keeshond|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Keehonden is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Keeshond|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Keeshonden appreciate several walks a day, the better to make new friends and explore new places.\
Keeshond|History|1930 - The Keeshond was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Finnish Lapphund|Forequarters|Shoulders moderately angulated. Legs straight. Pasterns flexible with very slight slope when viewed from the side. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet - Catlike, pads hard, pigmentation harmonizing with nose and eye rims. Nails strong, hard, pigmentation harmonizing with either nose and eye rims or coat.\
Finnish Lapphund|Head|The general appearance of theheadconveys strength, yet the expression is soft. Theskullis approximately as broad as it is long. The top of the skull is slightly domed. Depth of skull is equal to breadth. The stop is well defined, with an easily distinguishable frontal furrow. Theearsare set rather far apart, just off the top of the head and should be small to medium in size, triangular in shape, broad at the base and rounded at the tip, and covered with a heavy coat of hair. Ears may be erect or semi-erect (tipped). Drop ears are a fault.Eyesare oval in shape and as dark as possible. The color of the eyes may blend with the color of the coat, being lighter in lighter colored dogs. Yellow or blue eyes are a serious fault.\
Finnish Lapphund|Coat|Double coat. Outer coat-straight, harsh, flat-lying. Outer coat of medium length on body, shorter on front part of the legs and head; longer on ruff, tail, top of withers and back of thigh. Ruff more pronounced on males.\'a0 Thick brush tail tapering to a pointed tip.\'a0 Undercoat - soft and short with density varying with climate.\'a0 Excessively long outer coat that masks the clean outline of the dog is undesirable as is any trimming that alters the natural appearance of the dog.\
Finnish Lapphund|Hindquarters|Moderately angulated. In balance with forequarters. Straight when viewed from the rear. Thigh musculature well-developed, moderately broad. Hocks well-let-down. Dewclaws must be removed. Feet and nails as in fore-quarters.\
Finnish Lapphund|Fun Fact|The Finnish Lapphund is also known as Lapinkoira.\
Finnish Lapphund|Health|Finnish Lapphunds are generally a healthy breed.\
Finnish Lapphund|Grooming|The breed has a beautiful, long, thick coat.\
Finnish Lapphund|General Appearance|The Finnish Lapphund is a medium sized breed that combines the look of the northern type dog with the temperament of the herding dog. They are intelligent, alert, agile, friendly and eager to learn. Developed to live and work outside, north of the Arctic Circle, the breed is strongly built and thickly coated. These dogs were never intended as guardians, and are particularly submissive towards people. Despite its strength, the Finnish Lapphund conveys a certain softness, particularly in expression. Males are recognizably masculine and females feminine.\
Finnish Lapphund|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Finnish Lapphunds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Finnish Lapphund|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Alert and energetic, but not hyper; easily trained and eager to work.\
Finnish Lapphund|History|2011 - The Finnish Lapphund was officially recognized by the AKC in 2011.\
Collie|Body|Neck:Theneckis firm, clean, muscular, sinewy and heavily frilled. It is fairly long, carried upright with a slight arch at the nape and imparts a proud, upstanding appearance showing off the frill.Body:Thebodyis firm, hard and muscular, a trifle long in proportion to the height. The ribs are well-rounded behind the well-sloped shoulders and the chest is deep, extending to the elbows. The back is strong and level, supported by powerful hips and thighs and the croup is sloped to give a well-rounded finish. The loin is powerful and slightly arched.Noticeably fat dogs, or dogs in poor flesh, or with skin disease, or with no undercoat are out of condition and are moderately penalized accordingly.\
Collie|Head|Theheadproperties are of great importance. When considered in proportion to the size of the dog the head is inclined to lightness and never appears massive. A heavy-headed dog lacks the necessary bright, alert, full-of-sense look that contributes so greatly to expression. Both in front and profile view the head bears a general resemblance to a well-blunted lean wedge, being smooth and clean in outline and nicely balanced in proportion. On the sides it tapers gradually and smoothly from the ears to the end of the black nose, without being flared out in backskull (cheeky) or pinched in muzzle (snipy). In profile view the top of the backskull and the top of the muzzle lie in two approximately parallel, straight planes of equal length, divided by a very slight but perceptible stop or break. A mid-point between the inside corners of the eyes (which is the center of a correctly placed stop) is the center of balance in length of head.\
Collie|Coat|The well-fitting, proper-textured coat is the crowning glory of the Rough variety of Collie. It is abundant except on the head and legs. The outer coat is straight and harsh to the touch.A soft, open outer coat or a curly outer coat, regardless of quantity, is penalized.The undercoat, however, is soft, furry and so close together that it is difficult to see the skin when the hair is parted. The coat is very abundant on the mane and frill. The face or mask is smooth. The forelegs are smooth and well feathered to the back of the pasterns. The hind legs are smooth below the hock joints. Any feathering below the hocks is removed for the show ring. The hair on the tail is very profuse and on the hips it is long and bushy. The texture, quantity and the extent to which the coat "fits the dog" are important points.\
Collie|Health|The Collie is a healthy, sturdy breed with an average life expectancy of 12 years.\
Collie|Fun Fact|Lassie is the most famous Collie of all time.\
Collie|Grooming|Collies in full coat should be brushed once every week or two.\
Collie|General Appearance|The Collie is a lithe, strong, responsive, active dog, carrying no useless timber, standing naturally straight and firm. The deep, moderately wide chest shows strength, the sloping shoulders and well-bent hocks indicate speed and grace, and the face shows high intelligence. The Collie presents an impressive, proud picture of true balance, each part being in harmonious proportion to every other part and to the whole. Except for the technical description that is essential to this Standard and without which no Standard for the guidance of breeders and judges is adequate, it could be stated simply that no part of the Collie ever seems to be out of proportion to any other part. Timidity, frailness, sullenness, viciousness, lack of animation, cumbersome appearance and lack of over-all balance impair the general character.\
Collie|Nutrition & Feeding|A quality diet will cultivate healthy skin, a luxurious coat, bright shiny eyes...\
Collie|Exercise|As a herding dog, Collies need moderate amounts of exercise.\
Collie|History|1885 - The Collie was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Leonberger|Body|Chest is broad, roomy, and deep, reaching at least to the level of the elbows, pronounced prosternum. Fore and rear quarters well muscled.\'a0Ribs are well-sprung, oval.\'a0Underline is only slightly tucked up.\'a0Loin is broad, compact, strong, well muscled.\'a0Croup is broad, relatively long, gently sloped, flowing smoothly into root of tail.\
Leonberger|Forequarters|Shoulder Angulation - Well laid-back and well muscled; the shoulder meets the upper arm at approximately a right angle allowing for excellent reach. Shoulder and upper arm rather long and about equal in length. Elbows - Close to body, neither in nor out when standing or gaiting.\'a0Forelegs - Well-boned, muscular, straight and parallel to each other.\'a0Pasterns - Strong, firm and straight when viewed from front, slightly sloping when viewed from side.\'a0Dewclaws - Usually present.\'a0Feet - Turn neither in nor out, rounded, tight, toes well arched (cat foot), pads always black.\
Leonberger|Head|The\'a0head, in its entirety, is deeper than it is broad, rectangular shaped. The length of muzzle to length of back skull is approximately equal, with no wrinkles, and cheeks are only slightly developed. Males have a strong masculine head while female heads express femininity.\
Leonberger|Coat|Leonbergers have a medium to long, water resistant, double coat on the body and short fine hair on the muzzle and front of limbs. Outer coat is medium-soft to coarse and lies flat. It is straight, with some generalized wave permitted. Mature males carry a mane, which extends over neck and chest. The undercoat is soft and dense, although it may be less so in summer months or warmer climates. In spite of the double coat, the outline of the body is always recognizable. Leonbergers have distinct feathering on backside of forelegs and ample feathering on breeches and some ear feathering. Tail is very well furnished. Females are less likely to carry a coat as long as males and this disparity must not be a consideration when judged against the male. Natural appearance of the coat is essential to breed type.\
Leonberger|Hindquarters|Angulation - In balance with forequarters. The rear assembly is powerful, muscular and well-boned. Legs - Viewed from the rear, the legs are straight and parallel, with stifles and paws turned neither in nor out, placed widely enough apart to match a properly built body.\'a0Thighs - Upper and lower of equal length, slanting and strongly muscled.\'a0Stifles - Angle clearly defined.\'a0Hocks - Strong of bone, distinctly angled between lower thigh and rear pastern; well let down.\'a0Dewclaws - Rear dewclaws may be present.\'a0Feet - Turned neither in nor out, but may be slightly elongated compared to forefeet. Toes arched; pads always black.\
Leonberger|Fun Fact|The Leonberger is AKC's 167th breed.\
Leonberger|Health|Leonbergers are generally a healthy breed.\
Leonberger|Grooming|The Leonberger's profuse coat tends to shed a lot, requiring daily brushing.\
Leonberger|General Appearance|The Leonberger is a calm, non-aggressive, large, muscular, working dog with a proud head carriage. He is distinguished by his balanced build, black mask, and double coat. Adult males, in particular, are powerful and strong and carry a lion-like mane on the neck and chest. A dog or bitch is easily discernable as such. For its size, the Leonberger is light on its feet and graceful in motion. Because natural appearance is essential to breed type, the Leonberger is to be shown with no trimming, sculpting or other alterations of the coat.True to his original purpose as a family, farm and draft dog, today's Leonberger excels as a multi-purpose\'a0working dog; the most important task being a reliable family companion. The Leonberger is vigilant, obedient and quietly confident in all situations. He exudes good-natured watchfulness, depicting intelligence and vigor.\
Leonberger|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Leonberger is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Leonberger|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Rambunctious when pups, adult Leos enjoy long walks and activities like swimming and cart pulling.\
Leonberger|History|2010 - The Leonberger was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Boykin Spaniel|Body|Theneckis moderately long, muscular, slightly arched at the crest and gradually blends into sloping shoulders. The back is straight, strong and essentially level. Loins are short, strong with a slight tuck up. Hisbodyis sturdily constructed but not too compact. The shoulders of the Boykin Spaniel are sloping. The brisket is well developed but not barreled, extending to the elbow and not too broad or narrow as to interfere with movement. The croup slopes gently to the set of thetail, and the tail-set follows the natural line of the croup. Tail is docked to a length of 3 to 5 inches when fully mature. The tail's carriage should be carried horizontally or slightly elevated and displays a characteristic lively, merry action, particularly when the dog is on game.\
Boykin Spaniel|Forequarters|The Boykin Spaniel's shoulders are sloping, clean and muscular. His legs medium in length, straight and well boned but not too short as to handicap for field work or so heavy as too appear clumsy. The pasterns strong with no suggestions of weakness. The toes closely grouped, webbed and well padded. The feet are round, compact, well-arched, of medium size with thick pads. Dewclaws should be removed.\
Boykin Spaniel|Head|Theheadmust be in proportion with the size of the dog. The Boykin'sexpressionis alert, self-confident, attractive and intelligent. Hiseyesare varying shades of brown, set well apart, medium size and oval shaped, trusting, and should not be protruding or bulging. The Boykin Spaniel'searsare set slightly above or even with the line of the eye. The leather of the ear is thin and when pulled forward should almost reach the tip of the nose. The ears hang close to the cheeks and are flat. Theskullis medium length fairly broad, flat on top, slightly rounded at the sides and back.\
Boykin Spaniel|Coat|The Boykin Spaniel has both an undercoat and an outer coat. The coat can range from flat to slightly wavy, with medium length, on the outer coat. The undercoat is short and dense. The ears, chest, legs and belly are equipped with light fringe or feathering. His coat may be trimmed to have a well groomed appearance and to enhance the dog's natural lines. It is legitimate to trim about the head, throat, ears and feet to give a smart, functional appearance. A rough, curly or harsh coat or no undercoat is to be penalized.\
Boykin Spaniel|Hindquarters|The Boykin Spaniel has well developed hips and thighs with the whole rear assembly showing strength and drive. The hock joint slightly rounded, should not be small or sharp in contour, moderately angulated. Legs from hock joint to foot pad moderate in length, strong and straight with good bone structure. His hocks are parallel.\
Boykin Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Boykin Spaniel is AKC's 163rd breed.\
Boykin Spaniel|Health|Boykin Spaniels can develop problems with the ears if neglected.\
Boykin Spaniel|Grooming|Its medium-length wavy coat coat requires only minimal maintenance beyond a weekly brushing.\
Boykin Spaniel|General Appearance|The Boykin Spaniel is medium in size, with emphasis placed on his hunting abilities, characterized by flushing and retrieving, with moderate speed and agility. His pendulous ears, intelligent expression, sturdy build and friendly wagging tail proclaim him part of the spaniel family.\
Boykin Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Boykin Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Boykin Spaniel|Exercise|Sportsmen working the swampy terrain of the South were always enamored of the breed\'92s intensity and versatility.\
Boykin Spaniel|History|2009 - The Boykin Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Sussex Spaniel|Body|Neck-The neck is rather short, strong, and slightly arched, but does not carry the head much above the level of the back. There should not be much throatiness about the skin.Topline and Body-The whole body is characterized as low and long with a level topline. The chest is round, especially behind the shoulders, and is deep and wide which gives a good girth. The back and loin are long and very muscular both in width and depth. For this development, the back ribs must be deep.\
Sussex Spaniel|Forequarters|The shoulders are well laid back and muscular. The upper arm should correspond in length and angle of return to the shoulder blade so that the legs are set well under the dog. The forelegs should be very short, strong, and heavily boned. They may show a slight bow. Both straight and slightly bowed constructions are proper and correct. The pasterns are very short and heavily boned. The feet are large and round with short hair between the toes.\
Sussex Spaniel|Head|Correctheadand expression are important features of the breed.Eyes-The eyes are hazel in color, fairly large, soft and languishing, but do not show the haw overmuch.Expression-The Sussex Spaniel has a somber and serious appearance, and its fairly heavy brows produce a frowning expression.Ears-The ears are thick, fairly large, and lobe-shaped and are set moderately low, slightly above the outside corner of the eye.\
Sussex Spaniel|Coat|The body coat is abundant, flat or slightly waved, with no tendency to curl. The legs are moderately well-feathered, but clean below the hocks. The ears are furnished with soft, wavy hair. The neck has a well-marked frill in the coat. The tail is thickly covered with moderately long feather. No trimming is acceptable except to shape foot feather, or to remove feather between the pads or between the hock and the feet. The feather between the toes must be left in sufficient length to cover the nails.\
Sussex Spaniel|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are full and well-rounded, strong, and heavily boned. They should be parallel with each other and also set wide apart-about as wide as the dog at the shoulders. The hind legs are short from the hock to the ground, heavily boned, and should seem neither shorter than the forelegs nor much bent at the hocks. The hindquarters must correspond in angulation to the forequarters. The hocks should turn neither in nor out. The rear feet are like the front feet.\
Sussex Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Sussex Spaniel is named after Sussex, England, where the first and most important kennel of these dogs was established.\
Sussex Spaniel|Health|Sussex Spaniel are generally a healthy breed.\
Sussex Spaniel|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Sussex Spaniel|General Appearance|Its short legs, massive build, long body, and habit of giving tongue when on scent made the breed ideally suited to penetrating the dense undergrowth and flushing game within range of the gun. Strength, maneuverability, and desire were essential for this purpose. Although it has never gained great popularity in numbers, the Sussex Spaniel continues today essentially unchanged in character and general appearance from those 19th century sporting dogs.\'a0The Sussex Spaniel presents a long and low, rectangular and rather massive appearance coupled with free movements and nice tail action. The breed has a somber and serious expression. The rich golden liver color is unique to the breed.\
Sussex Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Sussex Spaniel is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Sussex Spaniel|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Not quite as upbeat as other spaniels; walking, romping, and fetching will satisfy a pet Sussex.\
Sussex Spaniel|History|1884 - The Sussex Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Hovawart|Health|Hovawarts are generally a healthy breed.\
Hovawart|Fun Fact|The Hovawart has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Hovawart|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or comb to prevent mats.\
Hovawart|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Hovawarts is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Hovawart|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Hovawart|History|2010 - The Hovawart was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Swedish Lapphund|Fun Fact|The Swedish Lapphund has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Central Asian Shepherd Dog|Fun Fact|The Central Asian Shepherd Dog has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Body|The overall structure gives an impression of depth and strength without bulkiness.Neck-The neck is firm, clean, and in proportion to the body. It is of medium length and slightly arched at the crest, fitting well into the shoulders.Topline-The back is firm and level from the withers to the hip joint when standing or moving. Loin - The loin is strong and broad when viewed from the top. Croup - The croup is moderately sloped.Body -The body is firm and well conditioned.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Forequarters|The forequarters are well conditioned and balanced with the hindquarters. Shoulders - Shoulder blades (scapula) are long, flat, fairly close set at the withers, and well laid back. Upper arm - The upper arm (humerus) is equal in length to the shoulder blade and meets the shoulder blade at an approximate right angle. The forelegs drop straight and perpendicular to the ground. Elbow - The elbow joint is equidistant from the ground to the withers. Viewed from the side, the elbow should be directly under the withers. The elbows should be close to the ribs without looseness.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Head|Theheadis clean-cut, dry, and in proportion to the body.Expression- Alert, attentive and intelligent. May express a reserved look and/or be watchful of strangers.Eyes-The eyes are set obliquely, almond shaped, neither protruding nor sunken and in proportion to the head. Acceptable in all coat colors, one or both eyes may be brown, blue, hazel, amber or any color combination thereof, including flecks and marbling. The eye rims of the reds and red merles have full red (liver) pigmentation. The eye rims of the blacks and blue merles have full black pigmentation.Ears-Are triangular, of moderate size, set high on the head. At full attention they break forward and over, or to the side as a rose ear. Severe Fault - Prick ears and ears that hang with no lift.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Coat|Moderation is the overall impression of the coat. Hair is of medium texture, straight to wavy, weather resistant, and of medium length. The undercoat varies in quantity with variations in climate. Hair is short and smooth on the head and front of the legs. The backs of forelegs and breeches are moderately feathered. There is a moderate mane and frill, more pronounced in dogs than in bitches. Hair may be trimmed on the ears, feet, back of hocks, pasterns, and tail, otherwise he is to be shown in a natural coat.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Hindquarters|Width of hindquarters is approximately equal to the width of the forequarters at the shoulders. Angulation - The angulation of the pelvis and upper thigh (femur) mirrors the angulation of the shoulder blade and upper arm, forming an approximate right angle. Stifle - Stifles are clearly defined. Hock - The hocks are short, perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other when viewed from the rear.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Fun Fact|The Miniature American Shepherd has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Health|Miniature American Shepherds are generally a healthy breed.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Grooming|The breed's coat needs only weekly brushing, although they do shed several times a year.\
Miniature American Shepherd|General Appearance|The Miniature American Shepherd is a small size herding dog that originated in the United States. He is slightly longer than tall with bone that is moderate and in proportion to body size and height without extremes. Movement is smooth, easy, and balanced. Exceptional agility combined with strength and stamina allows for working over a variety of terrain. This highly versatile, energetic dog makes an excellent athlete with superior intelligence and a willingness to please those to whom he is devoted. He is both a loyal companion and a biddable worker, which is evident in his watchful expression. The double coat of medium length and coarseness may be solid in color or merled, with or without white and/or tan (copper) markings. He traditionally has a docked or natural bobtail.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Miniature American Shepherds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Miniature American Shepherd|Exercise|Needs exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Miniature American Shepherd|History|2015 - The Miniature American Shepherd was officially recognized by the AKC\
Dogo Argentino|Body|Neck -Of medium length, strong and erect, well muscled, with a slightly convex upper line. Truncated cone-shaped, it joins the head in a muscular arch which hides all bony prominences in this part, and fits to the thorax in a large base. It is covered by a thick and elastic skin that freely slips over the subcutaneous tissue which is a bit laxer than on the rest of the body. It has non-pendent smooth folds at the height of the throat, a fundamental trait for the function of the animal. The coat in this part is slightly longer than on the rest of the body.Body -The length of the body (from the point of the shoulder to the point of the buttock) exceeds the height at the withers by 10 percent.\
Dogo Argentino|Head|Of mesocephalic type, it looks strong and powerful, without abrupt angles or distinct chiseling. Its profile shows an upper line which is concave - convex: convex at the skull because of the prominence of its masticatory muscles and its nape; and slightly concave at the foreface. The head joins the neck forming a strong muscular arch.\
Dogo Argentino|Coat|Uniform, short, plain and smooth to the touch, with an average length of \'bd to \'be inch. Variable density and thickness according to different climates. In tropical climates the coat is sparse and thin (letting the skin shine through and making pigmented regions visible which is not a cause of penalty). In a cold climate it is thicker and denser and may present an undercoat.\
Dogo Argentino|Hindquarters|With medium angulation. As a whole, they are strong, sturdy and parallel, creating the image of the great power their function requires. They ensure the proper impulsion and determine the dog's characteristic gait. Upper thigh - Length proportionate to the whole. Strong and with fully developed and visible muscles.\
Dogo Argentino|Fun Fact|The Dogo Argentino is also known as the Argentinian Mastiff.\
Dogo Argentino|Health|Dogo Argentinos are generally a healthy breed.\
Dogo Argentino|Grooming|The breed's coat needs only weekly brushing.\
Dogo Argentino|General Appearance|Molossian normal type, mesomorphic and macrothalic, within the desirable proportions without gigantic dimensions. Its aspect is harmonic and vigorous due to its powerful muscles which stand out under the consistent and elastic skin adhered to the body through a not very lax subcutaneous tissue. It walks quietly but firmly, showing its intelligence and quick responsiveness and revealing by means of its movement its permanent happy natural disposition. Of a kind and loving nature, of a striking whiteness, its physical virtues turn it into a real athlete.\
Dogo Argentino|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dogo Argentinos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Dogo Argentino|Exercise|The Dogo Argentina is not a good choice for the novice owner.\
Dogo Argentino|History|1995 - The Dogo Argentino was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Saluki|Body|Neck:Long, supple and well muscled.Chest:Deep and moderately narrow.Loin and Back:Back fairly broad, muscles slightly arched over loin.\
Saluki|Forequarters|Shoulders sloping and set well back, well muscled without being coarse. Forelegs Straight and long from the elbow to the knee.\
Saluki|Head|Long and narrow, skull moderately wide between the ears, not domed, stop not pronounced, the whole showing great quality. Nose black or liver.EarsLong and covered with long silky hair hanging close to the skull and mobile.EyesDark to hazel and bright; large and oval, but not prominent. Teeth Strong and level.\
Saluki|Coat|Smooth and of a soft silky texture, slight feather on the legs, feather at the back of the thighs and sometimes with slight woolly feather on the thigh and shoulder.\
Saluki|Hindquarters|Strong, hipbones set well apart and stifle moderately bent, hocks low to the ground, showing galloping and jumping power.\
Saluki|Fun Fact|Salukis were first brought into England in 1840.\
Saluki|Health|Salukis are generally a healthy breed.\
Saluki|Grooming|A clean breed, Saluki coats shed very little.\
Saluki|General Appearance|The whole appearance of this breed should give an impression of grace and symmetry and of great speed and endurance coupled with strength and activity to enable it to kill gazelle or other quarry over deep sand or rocky mountains. Theexpressionshould be dignified and gentle with deep, faithful, far-seeing eyes. Dogs should average in height from 23 to 28 inches and bitches may be considerably smaller, this being very typical of the breed.\
Saluki|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Salukis is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Saluki|Exercise|Your Saluki is a natural athlete.\
Saluki|History|1929 - The Saluki was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Body|Pleasing smooth merge of neck into topline.Neck:Medium length, strong and clean, merging smoothly with the body.Top line:Sturdy and level.Body: Strong, slightly elongated, length to be in rib cage and not in loin; length to height ratio 10 to 8 measured from point of shoulder to point of rump and ground to withers.Chest:Capacious, broad, deep, and reaching to the elbows; well sprung ribs.Underline:Slightly tucked up.Back: Straight, firm, broad. Loins: Strong, flexible.Croup:Slightly sloping, relatively long.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Forequarters|Strongly muscled but not too heavy. Shoulders are laid back, flat lying, well muscled and never loose. Upper arm length equal or slightly shorter than shoulder blade. Angle of shoulder blade forming as nearly as possible a right angle. Elbows lying well onto the body, turning neither in nor out. Forelegs are short, sturdy, straight and parallel; neither too wide nor too close together. Seen from side placed well under the body.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Head|In harmonious proportion to the body, slightly wedged-shaped; clean. Head planes of muzzle and skull more or less parallel.Expression:Alert, attentive, and friendly.Eyes:Must be brown, darker eye preferred. Slightly small, almond shaped, with well fitted, black pigmented rims. Disqualifying fault: Blue eyes or yellow hawk eyes.Ears:Not too big, set on high and wide. When alert, are slightly raised at set-on, turned forward; in repose lay flat and close to head and form a nearly level plane with topskull. Firm, well developed ear-cartilage. Flaps pendulous, triangular, rounded at tips.Nose:BlackLips:Close fitting to jaw, with complete black pigmentation.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Coat|Double coat. Topcoat short, close fitting, harsh and shiny. Undercoat dense; of varying color. Wavy or soft coat tolerated but not preferred.\'a0Disqualifying fault: Single coat.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Hindquarters|Well-muscled. Hind legs not too close together; from behind, straight and parallel. Upper thigh: Fairly long, broad and strong. Lower thigh: Approximately equal length to upper thigh; clean. Stifle: Well angulated. Hock joint: Strong; turns neither in nor out.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Fun Fact|In Switzerland, Entlebuchers were used by Alpine herdsman to drive cattle.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Health|Entlebucher Mountain Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Grooming|Their smooth, short coat requires minimal upkeep.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|General Appearance|The Entlebucher is a compact, strongly muscled, elongated drover with ample bone. He has a short, hard and shiny coat, bright black with symmetrical markings of pure white on blaze, muzzle, chest, and feet; shades of rich fawn to mahogany are present on the eyebrows and between the black and white markings.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Entlebucher Mountain Dogs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|Exercise|Very Active; Spirited, tireless workers and athletes, they do best with a job to perform.\
Entlebucher Mountain Dog|History|2011 - The Entlebucher Mountain Dog was officially recognized by the AKC in 2011.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Body|Neck-muscular and of moderate length, tapering slightly from shoulders to head. Carried well up but not vertical (goose necked). Throat clean with only a slight trace of dewlap.Body-the body should show considerable depth (extending well down toward the elbow), rather than excessive width, to allow for plenty of lung space. Forechest is moderate, fairly even with the point of the shoulder. Girth of chest for males is 26 to 34 inches, for females 23 to 30 inches. Ribs are long and well-sprung, tapering gradually towards a moderate tuck-up. Back is muscular andtoplineslopes downward slightly from withers to hips. Loin is broad, well-muscled and slightly arched.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Forequarters|Legs are straight from elbows to feet, well boned and muscular, with strong, straight, slightly sloping pasterns. Legs should appear straight from either side or front view. Length of leg from elbow to ground is approximately one half the height at the withers. Shoulders are clean and sloping, muscular but not too broad or rough, giving the appearance of freedom of movement and strength.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Head|Theheadis broad between the ears with a slightly domed skull. Total length of head from occiput to end of nose is 9 to 10 inches in males and 8 to 9 inches in females. Stop is prominent.Eyes-rather large, set wide apart in skull. Round in shape and dark brown in color (never lighter than light brown). Eye rims tight and close fitting. No excess third eyelid should be apparent. Expression is a typical pleading hound expression, never wild or cowering.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Coat|Medium coarse and lying close to the body, appearing smooth and glossy. Not rough or too short.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Hindquarters|Hips are strong and well muscled, not quite as wide as ribcage. Thighs have great muscular development for an abundance of propelling power. Breeching full and clean down to hock. Hocks are strong and moderately bent. Dewclaws are removed. Rear legs are parallel from hip to foot when viewed from behind (no cowhocks).\
Bluetick Coonhound|Fun Fact|The Bluetick Coonhound became eligible for AKC registration, December 30, 2009\
Bluetick Coonhound|Health|Bluetick Coonhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Grooming|Grooming a Bluetick is a simple matter of keeping the nails trimmed, the ears clean, and the coat brushed and clean.\
Bluetick Coonhound|General Appearance|The Bluetick should have the appearance of a speedy and well-muscled hound. He never appears clumsy or overly chunky in build. He has a neat, compact body, a glossy coat and clear, keen eyes. In motion he carries his head and tail well up.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bluetick Coonhounds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Bluetick Coonhound|Exercise|Bluetick Coonhounds crave affection and become deeply devoted to those who provide it, especially kids.\
Bluetick Coonhound|History|2009 - The Bluetick Coonhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Kuvasz|Body|Back\'a0is of medium length, straight, firm and quite broad. The loin is short, muscular and tight. The croup well muscled, slightly sloping. Forechest is well developed. When viewed from the side, the forechest protrudes slightly in front of the shoulders. Chest deep with long, well-sprung ribs reaching almost to the elbows. The brisket is deep, well developed and runs parallel to the ground. The stomach is well tucked up.\
Kuvasz|Forequarters|Shoulders muscular and long.Topline- withers are higher than the back. The scapula and humerus form a right angle, are long and of equal length. Elbows neither in nor out. Legs are medium boned, straight and well muscled. The joints are dry, hard. Dewclaws on the forelegs should not be removed. Feet\'a0well padded. Pads resilient, black. Feet are closed tight, forming round "cat feet." Some hair between the toes, the less the better. Dark nails are preferred.\
Kuvasz|Head|Proportions are of great importance as the\'a0head\'a0is considered to be the most beautiful part of the Kuvasz. Length of head measured from tip of nose to occiput is slightly less than half the height of the dog at the withers. Width is half the length of the head.\
Kuvasz|Coat|The Kuvasz has a double coat, formed by guard hair and fine undercoat. The texture of the coat is medium coarse. The coat ranges from quite wavy to straight. Distribution follows a definite pattern over the body regardless of coat type. The head, muzzle, ears and paws are covered with short, smooth hair. The neck has a mane that extends to and covers the chest. Coat on the front of the forelegs up to the elbows and the hind legs below the thighs is short and smooth. The backs of the forelegs are feathered to the pastern with hair 2 to 3 inches long. The body and sides of the thighs are covered with a medium length coat. The back of the thighs and the entire tail are covered with hair 4 to 6 inches long. It is natural for the Kuvasz to lose most of the long coat during hot weather. Full luxuriant coat comes in seasonally, depending on climate.\
Kuvasz|Hindquarters|The portion behind the hip joint is moderately long, producing wide, long and strong muscles of the upper thigh. The femur is long, creating well-bent stifles. Lower thigh is long, dry, well muscled. Metatarsus is short, broad and of great strength. Dewclaws, if any, are removed. Feet as in front, except the rear paws somewhat longer.\
Kuvasz|Fun Fact|Plural of Kuvasz is Kuvaszok.\
Kuvasz|Health|The Kuvasz is a rugged, healthy breed with few health issues.\
Kuvasz|Grooming|The Kuvasz coat is very easy to care for, needing only brushing.\
Kuvasz|General Appearance|A working dog of larger size, sturdily built, well balanced, neither lanky nor cobby. White in color with no markings. Medium boned, well muscled, without the slightest hint of bulkiness or lethargy. Impresses the eye with strength and activity combined with light-footedness, moves freely on strong legs.\
Kuvasz|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Kuvasz is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Kuvasz|Exercise|While he is devoted to and protective of his family, the Kuvasz may not be overly demonstrative with his affections.\
Kuvasz|History|1931 - The Kuvasz was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Gordon Setter|Body|Neck is long, lean, arched to the head, and without throatiness.Toplinemoderately sloping.Bodyshort from shoulder to hips. Chest deep and not too broad in front; the ribs well sprung, leaving plenty of lung room. The chest reaches to the elbows. A pronounced forechest is in evidence. Loins short and broad and not arched. Croup nearly flat, with only a slight slope to the tailhead.T\
Gordon Setter|Forequarters|Shoulders fine at the points, and laying well back. The tops of the shoulder blades are close together. When viewed from behind, the neck appears to fit into the shoulders in smooth, flat lines that gradually widen from neck to shoulder. The angle formed by the shoulder blade and upper arm bone is approximately 90 degrees when the dog is standing so that the foreleg is perpendicular to the ground. Forelegs big-boned, straight and not bowed, with elbows free and not turned in or out. Pasterns are strong, short and nearly vertical with a slight spring. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet catlike in shape, formed by close-knit, well arched toes with plenty of hair between; with full toe pads and deep heel cushions. Feet are not turned in or out.\
Gordon Setter|Head|Head is deep, rather than broad, with plenty of brain room.Eyesof fair size, neither too deep-set nor too bulging, dark brown, bright and wise. The shape is oval rather than round. The lids are tight.Earsset low on the head approximately on line with the eyes, fairly large and thin, well folded and carried close to the head.\
Gordon Setter|Coat|Soft and shining, straight or slightly waved, but not curly, with long hair on ears, under stomach and on chest, on back of the fore and hind legs, and on the tail. The feather which starts near the root of the tail is slightly waved or straight, having a triangular appearance, growing shorter uniformly toward the end.\
Gordon Setter|Hindquarters|The hind legs from hip to hock are long, flat and muscular; from hock to heel, short and strong. The stifle and hock joints are well bent and not turned either in or out. When the dog is standing with the rear pastern perpendicular to the ground, the thighbone hangs downward parallel to an imaginary line drawn upward from the hock. Feet as in front.\
Gordon Setter|Fun Fact|Gordon Setters first started to hunt game birds almost 200 years ago.\
Gordon Setter|Health|Gordon Setters are generally a healthy breed.\
Gordon Setter|Grooming|Regular grooming for a Gordon Setter is necessary to prevent matting.\
Gordon Setter|General Appearance|The Gordon Setter is a good-sized, sturdily built, black and tan dog, well muscled, with plenty of bone and substance, but active, upstanding and stylish, appearing capable of doing a full day's work in the field. He has a strong, rather short back, with well sprung ribs and a short tail. The head is fairly heavy and finely chiseled. His bearing is intelligent, noble, and dignified, showing no signs of shyness or viciousness. Clear colors and straight or slightly waved coat are correct. He suggests strength and stamina rather than extreme speed. Symmetry and quality are most essential. A dog well balanced in all points is preferable to one with outstanding good qualities and defects. A smooth, free movement, with high head carriage, is typical.\
Gordon Setter|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Gordon Setter is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Gordon Setter|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Athletic and outdoorsy, Gordons need activity to stave off boredom.\
Gordon Setter|History|1884 - The Gordon Setter was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Vizsla|Forequarters|Shoulderblades proportionately long and wide sloping moderately back and fairly close at the top.Upper arm is about equal in length to the shoulder blade in order to allow for good extension.Forelegsstraight and muscular with elbows close. Feet cat-like, round and compact with toes close.\
Vizsla|Head|Lean and muscular.SA partially orcompletely black nose is a disqualification. Freckles due to aging or sun exposure are not to be faulted.Ears, thin, silky and proportionately long, with rounded-leather ends, set fairly low and hanging close to cheeks.Jawsare strong with well developed white teeth meeting in a scissors bite.Eyesmedium in size and depth of setting, their surrounding tissue covering the whites. Color of the iris should blend with the color of the coat. Yellow or any other color is faulty. Prominent pop eyes are faulty. Lower eyelids should neither turn in nor out since both conditions allow seeds and dust to irritate the eye.Lipscover the jaws completely but are neither loose nor pendulous.\
Vizsla|Coat|Short, smooth, dense and close-lying, without woolly undercoat.A distinctly long coat is a disqualification.\
Vizsla|Hindquarters|Hind legshave well developed thighs with moderately angulated stifles and hocks in balance with the moderately laid back shoulders. They must be straight as viewed from behind. Too much angulation at the hocks is as faulty as too little. The hocks are let down and parallel to each other.\
Vizsla|Fun Fact|The Vizsla is also called a Hungarian Pointer.\
Vizsla|Health|Vizslas are generally a healthy breed.\
Vizsla|Grooming|Although he sheds, his short coat requires low daily maintenance.\
Vizsla|General Appearance|That of a medium-sized, short-coated, hunting dog of distinguished appearance and bearing. Robust but rather lightly built, the coat is an attractive shaded golden rust. Originating in Hungary, the Vizsla was bred to work in field, forest and water. Agile and energetic,this is a versatile dog of power, drive and endurancein the field yet a tractable and affectionate companion in the home. It is strongly emphasized that field conditioned coats, as well as brawny or sinewy muscular condition and honorable scars indicating a working and hunting dog are never to be penalized in this dog. The requisite instincts and abilities to maintain a "dual dog" are always to be fostered and appreciated, never deprecated.\
Vizsla|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Vizslas is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Vizsla|Exercise|Very Active; Born hunting dogs built for long days in the field, Vizslas are athletes who thrive on hard exercise.\
Vizsla|History|1960 - The Vizsla was officially recognized by the AKC in 1960.\
Karelian Bear Dog|Health|Karelian Bear Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Karelian Bear Dog|Fun Fact|The Karelian Bear Dog has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Karelian Bear Dog|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or slicker.\
Karelian Bear Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Karelian Bear Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Karelian Bear Dog|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Karelian Bear Dog|History|2005 - The first petition to add the Karelian Bear Dog to the Foundation Stock Service program\
Irish Wolfhound|Body|Neck:Rather long, very strong and muscular, well arched, without dewlap or loose skin about the throat.Chest:Very deep. Breast, wide.Back:Rather long than short. Loins arched.\
Irish Wolfhound|Forequarters|Shoulders, muscular, giving breadth of chest, set sloping. Elbows well under, neither turned inwards nor outwards.Forearm muscular, and the whole leg strong and quite straight.\
Irish Wolfhound|Head|Long, the frontal bones of the forehead very slightly raised and very little indentation between the eyes.Skull, not too broad.Muzzle, long and moderately pointed.Ears, small and Greyhound-like in carriage.\
Irish Wolfhound|Coat|Rough and hard on body, legs and head; especially wiry and long over eyes and underjaw.\
Irish Wolfhound|Hindquarters|Muscular thighs and second thigh long and strong as in the Greyhound, and hocks well let down and turning neither in nor out. Feet are moderately large and round, neither turned inwards nor outwards. Toes, well arched and closed. Nails, very strong and curved.\
Irish Wolfhound|Fun Fact|The Irish Wolfhound is the tallest of all dogs.\
Irish Wolfhound|Health|Irish Wolfhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Irish Wolfhound|Grooming|The breed's harsh, natural coat requires regular brushing.\
Irish Wolfhound|General Appearance|Of great size and commanding appearance, the Irish Wolfhound is remarkable in combining power and swiftness with keen sight. The largest and tallest of the galloping hounds, in general type he is a rough-coated, Greyhound-like breed; very muscular, strong though gracefully built; movements easy and active; head and neck carried high, the tail carried with an upward sweep with a slight curve towards the extremity. The minimum height and weight of dogs should be 32 inches and 120 pounds; of bitches, 30 inches and 105 pounds; these to apply only to hounds over 18 months of age. Anything below this should be debarred from competition. Greatsize, including height at shoulder and proportionate length of body, is the desideratum to be aimed at, and it is desired to firmly establish a race that shall average from 32 to 34 inches in dogs, showing the requisite power, activity, courage and symmetry.\
Irish Wolfhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Irish Wolfhound is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Irish Wolfhound|Exercise|Although now primarily a family companion, the Irish Wolfhound will still instinctively give chase to fleeing prey.\
Irish Wolfhound|History|1897 - The Irish Wolfhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Norrbottenspets|Body|The neck is moderately long in proportion to the body, dry and muscular, with a slight arch and good reach.Topline-The withers are defined with the back and loin level and the croup slightly sloping. Body-Thedepth of the body is half the total height at withers.Chest - The chest is long, oval in shape, and of normal width, with well-developed last ribs. The forechest is well developed and well defined.\'a0 Thelowest part of the ribcage is in line with the elbow or just below it and merges softly into the bellyline. Tuck up - The bellyline is only slightly tucked up. Back - The back is short, level, and springy with strong muscles. Loin - The loin is short and broad. Croup - The croup is moderately long and broad, slightly sloping, with well-developed and hard muscles.\
Norrbottenspets|Forequarters|The forequarters are neither narrow nor broad, with legs straight and parallel, and without extremes in angulation.\'a0 Shoulder Blades - The shoulder blades are long, broad and muscular, forming well defined and developed withers. The shoulder blades are close fitting to the chest and set obliquely, with great freedom of movement.\
Norrbottenspets|Head|Theheadis strong, clean cut, and evenly tapering towards the nose when viewed from above and from the side. Sexual dimorphism should be clearly visible in the structure of the head.Expression-Norrbottenspets appear calm, keen, and attentive, with the head carried high and a fearless attitude.Eyes-The eyes are medium sized, almond-shaped, and obliquely set.\'a0 Irises are dark brown and eye rims are pigmented.Ears-The ears are high set and erect, slightly over medium size in proportion to the head, with hard leather and slightly rounded tips.\
Norrbottenspets|Coat|The Norrbottenspets is double coated. Topcoat - The topcoat is hard, short, and straight, rather close lying with different lengths: shortest on the nose bridge, the top of skull, the ears and the front of the legs; longest on the neck, the backside of the thighs and the underside of tail.\'a0 An erect coat is a serious fault.\'a0 Undercoat - Theundercoat is fine and dense.\
Norrbottenspets|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are without extremes in angulation and mirror the angulation of the forequarters. The hindquarters stand parallel when viewed from behind.\'a0 Upper thigh - The upper thigh is proportionately long with strong muscles and forms a right angle with the pelvis.\
Norrbottenspets|Fun Fact|The Norrbottenspets has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Norrbottenspets|Health|Norrbottenspets are generally a healthy breed\
Norrbottenspets|Grooming|The breed's coat needs only weekly brushing, although they do quite a bit of shedding several times a year.\
Norrbottenspets|General Appearance|The Norrbottenspets is a small, spitz-type hound of Nordic origin that uses sight, scent, and hearing to hunt forest game and then holds the game at bay and calls the hunter with high-pitched vocalizations. To navigate the rough terrain and climate of Scandinavian forests and hold large dangerous game, like moose, Norrbottenspets are extremely agile, rugged, and weatherproof with a fearless attitude, while at the same time kind and affectionate companions at fireside and home. Norrbottenspets exhibit no extremes in physical characteristics because they must do all things well.\
Norrbottenspets|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Norrbottenspets is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Norrbottenspets|Exercise|The Norrbottenspets are little hounds with a strong prey drive.\
Norrbottenspets|History|2007 - The Norrbottenspets was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service.\
Pomeranian|Body|Neck\'a0isset well into the shoulders with sufficient length to allow the head to be carried proud and high.\'a0Topline is level from withers to croup.\'a0Body is compact and well-ribbed. Chest\'a0-\'a0oval tapered extending to the point of elbows with a pronounced prosternum. Back - short-coupled, straight and strong. Loin - short with slight tuck-up. Croup is flat.\
Pomeranian|Forequarters|Shoulders - well laid back. Shoulder blade and upper arm length are equal. Elbows - held close to the body and turn neither in nor out. Legs when viewed from the front are moderately spaced, straight and parallel to each other, set well behind the forechest. Height from withers to elbows approximately equals height from ground to elbow. Shoulders and legs are moderately muscled. Pasterns straight and strong. Feet- round, tight, appearing cat-like, well-arched, compact, and turn neither in nor out, standing well up on toes.\
Pomeranian|Head|Head is\'a0in balance with the body, when viewed from above, broad at the back tapering to the nose to form a wedge.Expression -\'a0may be referred to as fox-like, denoting his alert and intelligent nature.\'a0Eyes-dark, bright, medium sized, and almond shaped; set well into the skull with the width between the eyes balancing the other facial features. Eye rims are black, except self-colored in chocolate, beaver and blue.\
Pomeranian|Coat|The Pomeranian is a double-coated breed. The body should be well covered with a short, dense undercoat with long harsh-textured guard hair growing through, forming the longer abundant outer coat which stands off from the body. The coat should form a ruff around the neck, framing the head, extending over the shoulders and chest.\
Pomeranian|Hindquarters|Angulation balances that of the forequarters. Buttocks are well behind the set of the tail. Thighs - moderately muscled. Upper thigh and lower leg length are equal. Stifles - strong, moderately bent and clearly defined. Legs - when viewed from the rear straight and parallel to each other. Hocks when viewed from the side are perpendicular to the ground and strong. Feet same as forequarters.\
Pomeranian|Fun Fact|The Pomeranian is a member of the family of dogs known unofficially as the "Spitz Group."\
Pomeranian|Health|Pomeranians are generally a healthy breed.\
Pomeranian|Grooming|They possess a thick double coat, which needs to be brushed on a regular basis.\
Pomeranian|General Appearance|The Pomeranian is a compact, short-backed, active toy dog of Nordic descent. The double coat consists of a short dense undercoat with a profuse harsh-textured longer outer coat. The heavily plumed tail is one of the characteristics of the breed. It is set high and lies flat on the back. He is alert in character, exhibits intelligence in expression, is buoyant in deportment, and is inquisitive by nature. The Pomeranian is cocky, commanding, and animated as he gaits. He is sound in composition and action.\
Pomeranian|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pomeranians is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Pomeranian|Exercise|Pomeranians are very intelligent dogs that love to please.\
Pomeranian|History|1888 - The Pomeranian was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Body|Theneckis carried proudly erect, well set on, slightly arched, gracefully curved, clean, muscular and free from throatiness. It is proportioned to the head and body and widens gradually blending smoothly into the shoulders. The length of the neck is approximately the same as that of the head. Thetoplineis level when standing and gaiting. Thebodyis balanced and tapers slightly from ribs to flank. The chest is deep and muscular with well sprung ribs. Depth of chest extends to the point of elbow. The back is straight, level, and muscular. Short and strong in loin with moderate tuck-up to denote grace and elegance.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Forequarters|Well angulated. The shoulder is firmly set and has adequate muscle, but is not overdeveloped. The shoulders are sloping and well laid back, blending smoothly from neck to back. The forechest is well developed. The elbows are close and perpendicular to the body. The legs are parallel and straight to the pasterns which are strong and straight while remaining flexible. Feet are small and oval, pointing forward turning neither in nor out. Toes are strong, well-arched and closely knit with deep pads.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Head|Theheadis elegant, balanced and expressive with no indication of coarseness.Expressionis intelligent, alert, eager and full of interest.Eyes-clear, bright and dark, including eye-rims, with the exception of chocolates whose eye-rims should be self-colored. The eyes are full, round and somewhat prominent, yet never bulging, with a soft intelligent expression. They are set well apart, not slanted, and fit well together into the sockets.Ears-The ears are erect, pointed, inverted V-shaped, set high and close together, but never touching. The size is in proportion to the head and body. Disqualification - Ears not erect on any dog over six months of age.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Coat|The coat is shiny, satiny, fine in texture and smooth to the touch. It is slightly longer in the ruff, uniformly covering the body.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Hindquarters|Well angulated, strong and muscular. The upper and lower thighs are strong, well muscled and of good length. The stifles are clearly defined and well angulated. Hock joints are well let down and firm. The rear pasterns are straight. The legs are parallel from the rear and turn neither in nor out. Dewclaws should be removed from hindquarters if present.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Fun Fact|The Toy Fox Terrier is also known as the AmerToy.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Health|Toy Fox Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Grooming|They are easy to groom - a quick weekly brushing to prevent shedding.\
Toy Fox Terrier|General Appearance|The Toy Fox Terrier is truly a toy and a terrier and both have influenced his personality and character. As a terrier, the Toy Fox Terrier possesses keen intelligence, courage, and animation. As a toy his is diminutive, and devoted with an endless abiding love for his master. The Toy Fox Terrier is a well-balanced Toy dog of athletic appearance displaying grace and agility in equal measure with strength and stamina. His lithe muscular body has a smooth elegant outline which conveys the impression of effortless movement and endless endurance. He is naturally well groomed, proud, animated, and alert. Characteristic traits are his elegant head, his short glossy and predominantly white coat, coupled with a predominantly solid head, and his short high-set tail.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Toy Fox Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Toy Fox Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Quick, alert, and athletic, TFTs like running and romping.\
Toy Fox Terrier|History|2003 - The Toy Fox Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bulldog|Body|The brisket and body should be very capacious, with full sides, well-rounded ribs and very deep from the shoulders down to its lowest part, where it joins the chest. It should be well let down between the shoulders and forelegs, giving the dog a broad, low, short-legged appearance. Chest - The chest should be very broad, deep and full. Underline - The body should be well ribbed up behind with the belly tucked up and not rotund. Back and Loin - The back should be short and strong, very broad at the shoulders and comparatively narrow at the loins.\
Bulldog|Forequarters|Shoulders - The shoulders should be muscular, very heavy, widespread and slanting outward, giving stability and great power. Forelegs - The forelegs should be short, very stout, straight and muscular, set wide apart, with well developed calves, presenting a bowed outline, but the bones of the legs should not be curved or bandy, nor the feet brought too close together. Elbows - The elbows should be low and stand well out and loose from the body. Feet - \'a0The feet should be moderate in size, compact and firmly set. Toes compact, well split up, with high knuckles and very short stubby nails. The front feet may be straight or slightly out-turned.\
Bulldog|Head|The skull should be very large, and in circumference, in front of the ears, should measure at least the height of the dog at the shoulders. Viewed from the front, it should appear very high from the corner of the lower jaw to the apex of the skull, and also very broad and square. Viewed at the side, the head should appear very high, and very short from the point of the nose to occiput. The forehead should be flat (not rounded or domed), neither too prominent nor overhanging the face.\
Bulldog|Coat|Coat - The coat should be straight, short, flat, close, of fine texture, smooth and glossy. (No fringe, feather or curl.) Skin - The skin should be soft and loose, especially at the head, neck and shoulders. Wrinkles and Dewlap - The head and face should be covered with heavy wrinkles, and at the throat, from jaw to chest, there should be two loose pendulous folds, forming the dewlap.\
Bulldog|Hindquarters|Legs - The hind legs should be strong and muscular and longer than the forelegs, so as to elevate the loins above the shoulders. Hocks should be slightly bent and well let down, so as to give length and strength from the loins to hock. The lower leg should be short, straight and strong, with the stifles turned slightly outward and away from the body. The hocks are thereby made to approach each other, and the hind feet to turn outward.\
Bulldog|Fun Fact|The Bulldog originated in the British Isles.\
Bulldog|Health|Bulldogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Bulldog|Grooming|The breed requires minimal grooming and exercise.\
Bulldog|General Appearance|The perfect Bulldog must be of medium size and smooth coat; with heavy, thick-set, low-swung body, massive short-faced head, wide shoulders and sturdy limbs. The general appearance and attitude should suggest great stability, vigor and strength. The disposition should be equable and kind, resolute and courageous (not vicious or aggressive), and demeanor should be pacific and dignified. These attributes should be countenanced by the expression and behavior.\
Bulldog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bulldogs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Bulldog|Exercise|Not Very Active; Bulldogs won't beg to be exercised, but they require regular walks and the occasional romp.\
Bulldog|History|1886 - The Bulldog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Berger Picard|Body|Chest deep but not exaggerated, reaching to the level of the elbow but not beyond. Prominent prosternum blends smoothly into the sternum. The lowest point of the sternum is at the level of the elbow, and from that point, the sternum slopes gradually up towards the loin to give good depth and length to the ribcage. Ribs are well sprung from the spine for the upper one-third, then flattening as they approach the sternum, neither slab-sided nor barrel-shaped. Belly slightly tucked up. Loin strong but not overly long.\
Berger Picard|Forequarters|Shoulder blades are long and well laid back, covered by lean and strong muscle. The length of the upper arm balances the shoulder blade, placing the elbow well under and close in to the body. Forelegs are straight and strong, without being bulky. Viewed from the front, legs are parallel to each other with toes pointing straight forward. Pasterns slope slightly to a compact, rounded foot with well arched toes and strong, black nails. Pads are strong and supple. Dewclaws may be removed or left on.\
Berger Picard|Head|Strong, without being massive; rectangular overall and narrowing slightly from ears to the eyes, and again from eyes to nose when viewed from above. The correct length of head, measured from occiput to nose, should be about the same length as the neck.Expression-Alert and observant, spirited, confident, pleasant.Eyes-Medium size, oval shaped and turned forward; neither round nor protruding. Eye color is medium to dark brown, but never lighter than hazel. Darker eye color is preferred. Eye rims are tight-fitting and fully pigmented. Disqualification - Yellow eyes.Ears-Moderately large (4 to 5 inches long), broad at the base, tapering to a slightly rounded tip, and set rather high on the skull. Always carried naturally erect, and turned forward.\
Berger Picard|Coat|Harsh and crisp to the touch, neither flat nor curly, often with a slight wave. Undercoat is soft, short, and dense. The shaggy, rough coat of the Picard is distinctive, and should never be wooly, soft, or so profuse that it hides the outline of the dog. Ideal length is 2 to 3 inches over the entire dog, with coat naturally somewhat shorter on the top of the head. The coat accents on the head and neck which give the Picard its distinct look, known as "griffonage", include rough eyebrows, moderate beard and moustache, and a slight ruff on the front and sides of the neck, framing the head, all of moderate length.\
Berger Picard|Hindquarters|Angulation of the thigh and stifle balance the front assembly, and are well muscled, providing powerful, tireless, and effortless movement. Rear pasterns are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the ground. With a correctly angulated rear, the toes of the hind foot land just behind a perpendicular line dropped from the point of rump. Feet are rounded with well arched toes and strong black nails, as in front. There should be no dewclaws on the rear legs.\
Berger Picard|Fun Fact|The correct French pronunciation of Berger Picard is bare ZHAY pee CARR. Berger is the French word for shepherd and Picard is the region in France where they are from.\
Berger Picard|Health|Berger Picards are generally a healthy breed.\
Berger Picard|Grooming|The breed's wiry and shaggy topcoat along with the dense undercoat needs weekly brushing and will shed several times.\
Berger Picard|General Appearance|The Berger Picard is an ancient breed developed by the farmers and sheep herders of the Picardy region of northern France. They are medium-sized, sturdily built & well-muscled without being bulky, slightly longer than tall, with distinctive erect natural ears, wiry coat of moderate length, and a tail reaching to the hock and ending in a J-hook. Movement is free and easy, efficient, and tireless to allow them to work all day on the farm and in the fields. They are lively and alert, observant, quietly confident, and can be aloof with strangers, but should not be timid or nervous. This is a rustic, working shepherd's dog, without exaggeration or refinement.\
Berger Picard|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Berger Picards is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Berger Picard|Exercise|The Berger Picard is a working dog that excels at herding.\
Berger Picard|History|2015 - The Berger Picard was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Italian Greyhound|Head|Head:Narrow and long, tapering to nose, with a slight suggestion of stop.Skull-Rather long, almost flat.Eyes-Dark, bright, intelligent, medium in size. Very light eyes are a fault.Ears-Small, fine in texture; thrown back and folded except when alerted, then carried folded at right angles to the head. Erect or button ears severely penalized.\
Italian Greyhound|Coat|Skin fine and supple, hair short, glossy like satin and soft to the touch.\
Italian Greyhound|Hindquarters|Long, well-muscled thigh; hind legs parallel when viewed from behind, hocks well let down, well-bent stifle\
Italian Greyhound|Fun Fact|President John Tyler bought his wife an Italian Greyhound named "Le Beau."\
Italian Greyhound|Health|Italian Greyhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Italian Greyhound|Grooming|The IG\'92s short, smooth as satin coat makes him one of the easiest breeds to groom.\
Italian Greyhound|General Appearance|The Italian Greyhound is very similar to the Greyhound, but much smaller and more slender in all proportions and of ideal elegance and grace.\
Italian Greyhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Italian Greyhounds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Italian Greyhound|Exercise|The Italian Greyhound is an active breed that needs some regular exercise before being a couch potato with its family.\
Italian Greyhound|History|1886 - The Italian Greyhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Newfoundland|Body|Theneckis strong and well set on the shoulders and is long enough for proud head carriage. Thebackis strong, broad, and muscular and is level from just behind the withers to the croup. The chest is full and deep with the brisket reaching at least down to the elbows. Ribs are well sprung, with the anterior third of the rib cage tapered to allow elbow clearance. The flank is deep. The croup is broad and slopes slightly.\
Newfoundland|Forequarters|Shoulders are muscular and well laid back. Elbows lie directly below the highest point of the withers. Forelegs are muscular, heavily boned, straight, and parallel to each other, and the elbows point directly to the rear. The distance from elbow to ground equals about half the dog's height. Pasterns are strong and slightly sloping. Feet are proportionate to the body in size, webbed, and cat foot in type. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Newfoundland|Head|Theheadis massive, with a broadskull, slightly arched crown, and strongly developed occipital bone. Cheeks are well developed.Eyesare dark brown. (Browns and Grays may have lighter eyes and should be penalized only to the extent that color affects expression.) They are relatively small, deep-set, and spaced wide apart. Eyelids fit closely with no inversion.Earsare relatively small and triangular with rounded tips. They are set on the skull level with, or slightly above, the brow and lie close to the head. When the ear is brought forward, it reaches to the inner corner of the eye on the same side.Expressionis soft and reflects the characteristics of the breed: benevolence, intelligence, and dignity. Forehead and face are smooth and free of wrinkles. Slope of the stop is moderate but, because of the well developed brow, it may appear abrupt in profile.\
Newfoundland|Coat|The adult Newfoundland has a flat, water-resistant, double coat that tends to fall back into place when rubbed against the nap. The outer coat is coarse, moderately long, and full, either straight or with a wave. The undercoat is soft and dense, although it is often less dense during the summer months or in warmer climates. Hair on the face and muzzle is short and fine. The backs of the legs are feathered all the way down. The tail is covered with long dense hair. Excess hair may be trimmed for neatness. Whiskers need not be trimmed.\
Newfoundland|Hindquarters|The rear assembly is powerful, muscular, and heavily boned. Viewed from the rear, the legs are straight and parallel. Viewed from the side, the thighs are broad and fairly long. Stifles and hocks are well bent and the line from hock to ground is perpendicular. Hocks are well let down. Hind feet are similar to the front feet. Dewclaws should be removed.\
Newfoundland|Fun Fact|The Newfoundland is particularly suited to the island of its origin with a thick, heavy coat.\
Newfoundland|Health|The Newfoundlands is generally a healthy breed.\
Newfoundland|Grooming|Regular brushing is important to maintain his plush coat.\
Newfoundland|General Appearance|The Newfoundland is a sweet-dispositioned dog that acts neither dull nor ill-tempered. He is a devoted companion.\'a0The Newfoundland is a large, heavily coated, well balanced dog that is deep-bodied, heavily boned, muscular, and strong. A good specimen of the breed has dignity and proud head carriage.\
Newfoundland|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Newfoundlands is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Newfoundland|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Newfs like using their big, powerful bodies\'97they need some room to romp.\
Newfoundland|History|1886 - The Newfoundland was officially recognized by the AKC.\
St. Bernard|Body|Neck: Set high, very strong and when alert or at attention is carried erect. Otherwise horizontally or slightly downward. The junction of head andneckis distinctly marked by an indentation. The nape of the neck is very muscular and rounded at the sides which makes the neck appear rather short. The dewlap of throat and neck is well pronounced: too strong development, however, is not desirable.Shoulders: Sloping and broad, very muscular and powerful. The withers are strongly pronounced.\
St. Bernard|Head|Like the whole body, very powerful and imposing.\'a0Nose(Schwamm)- Very substantial, broad, with wide open nostrils, and, like the lips, always black.Ears- Of medium size, rather high set, with very strongly developed burr (Muschel) at the base. They stand slightly away from the head at the base, then drop with a sharp bend to the side and cling to the head without a turn. The flap is tender and forms a rounded triangle, slightly elongated toward the point, the front edge lying firmly to the head, whereas the back edge may stand somewhat away from the head, especially when the dog is at attention. Lightly set ears, which at the base immediately cling to the head, give it an oval and too little marked exterior, whereas a strongly developed base gives the skull a squarer, broader and much more expressive appearance.\
St. Bernard|Coat|Very dense, short-haired (stockhaarig), lying smooth, tough, without however feeling rough to the touch. The thighs are slightly bushy. The tail at the root has longer and denser hair which gradually becomes shorter toward the tip. The tail appears bushy, not forming a flag.\
St. Bernard|Hindquarters|Well-developed. Legs very muscular\
St. Bernard|Fun Fact|Prior to 1830, all Saint Bernards were short-haired.\
St. Bernard|Health|Saint Bernards are generally a healthy breed.\
St. Bernard|Grooming|Both long-haired and short-haired Saint Bernards shed and need regular grooming.\
St. Bernard|General Appearance|Powerful, proportionately tall figure, strong and muscular in every part, with powerful head and most intelligent expression. In dogs with a dark mask the expression appears more stern, but never ill-natured.\
St. Bernard|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Saint Bernards is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
St. Bernard|Exercise|All Saint Bernards should be kept in a fenced yard or kennel, walked on a lead, and never allowed to run free.\
St. Bernard|History|1885 - The St. Bernard was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Body|Neck-rather long, slightly arched, no dewlap.Topline-The back is strong and firm, descending in a gentle slope from the slightly higher withers to the base of the tail.Body-Chest- The chest must descend to the level of the elbow, with a moderate spring of rib. The chest must neither be too wide nor too narrow, but of medium width to allow freedom of movement. The loin is strong and well developed, being of medium length. The croup and rump are stoutly made with adequate length to favor speed.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Forequarters|Shoulders are long, with good angulation, and well laid back. The forelegs are straight and vertical from the front and set well under the shoulder from the side. Pasterns are slightly sloping. Dewclaws should be removed. Feet are round, firm, with tightly closed webbed toes. Pads are thick.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Head|Theheadis to be in proportion to the overall dog. TThe required abundant mustache and eyebrows contribute to the friendlyexpression. Theeyesare large and well open, more rounded than elliptical. They have an alert, friendly, and intelligent expression. Eye color ranges in all shades of yellow and brown. Haws should not show nor should there be protruding eyes. Theearsshould be of medium size, lying flat and close to the head, set high, at the height of the eye line. Nose-Well open nostrils are essential. Nose color is always brown. Any other color is a disqualification.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Coat|The coat is one of the distinguishing features of the breed. It is a double coat. The outer coat is medium length, straight and wiry, never curly or woolly. The harsh texture provides protection in rough cover. The obligatory undercoat consists of a fine, thick down, which provides insulation as well as water resistance. The undercoat is more or less abundant, depending upon the season, climate, and hormone cycle of the dog. It is usually lighter in color. The head is furnished with a prominent mustache and eyebrows. These required features are extensions of the undercoat, which gives the Griffon a somewhat untidy appearance. The hair covering the ears is fairly short and soft, mixed with longer harsh hair from the coat. The overall feel is much less wiry than the body.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Hindquarters|The thighs are long and well muscled. Angulation in balance with the front. The legs are vertical with the hocks turning neither in nor out. The stifle and hock joints are strong and well angulated. Feet as in front.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Fun Fact|The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon is an excellent swimmer and retriever.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Health|Wirehaired Pointing Griffons are generally a healthy breed.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|General Appearance|Medium sized, with a noble, square-shaped head, strong of limb, bred to cover all terrain encountered by the walking hunter. Movement showing an easy catlike gracefulness. Excels equally as a pointer in the field, or a retriever in the water. Coat is hard and coarse, never curly or woolly, with a thick undercoat of fine hair, giving an unkempt appearance. His easy trainability, devotion to family, and friendly temperament endear him to all. The nickname of "supreme gundog" is well earned.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Wirehaired Pointing Griffons is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|Exercise|Very Active; Versatile and tireless, these durable athletes are excellent swimmers and jogger\'92s companions.\
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon|History|1887 - The Wirehaired Pointing Griffon was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Boxer|Body|Neck-Round, of ample length, muscular and clean without excessive hanging skin (dewlap). The neck should have a distinctly arched and elegant nape blending smoothly into the withers.The back is short, straight, muscular, firm, and smooth. Thetoplineis slightly sloping when the Boxer is at attention, leveling out when in motion.Body-The chest is of fair width, and the forechest well-defined and visible from the side. The brisket is deep, reaching down to the elbows; the depth of the body at the lowest point of the brisket equals half the height of the dog at the withers. The ribs, extending far to the rear, are well-arched but not barrel-shaped. The loins are short and muscular. The lower stomach line is slightly tucked up, blending into a graceful curve to the rear. The croup is slightly sloped, flat and broad. The pelvis is long, and in females especially broad. The tail is set high, docked, and carried upward. An undocked tail should be severely penalized.\
Boxer|Forequarters|The shoulders are long and sloping, close-lying, and not excessively covered with muscle (loaded). The upper arm is long, approaching a right angle to the shoulder blade. The elbows should not press too closely to the chest wall nor stand off visibly from it. The forelegs are long, straight, and firmly muscled, and, when viewed from the front, stand parallel to each other. The pastern is strong and distinct, slightly slanting, but standing almost perpendicular to the ground. The dewclaws may be removed. Feet should be compact, turning neither in nor out, with well-arched toes.\
Boxer|Head|The beauty of theheaddepends upon the harmonious proportion of muzzle to skull. The bluntmuzzleis 1/3 the length of the head from the occiput to the tip of the nose, and 2/3 the width of the skull. The head should be clean, not showing deep wrinkles (wet). Wrinkles typically appear upon the forehead when ears are erect, and are always present from the lower edge of the stop running downward on both sides of the muzzle.Skull-The top of the skull is slightly arched, not rounded, flat, nor noticeably broad, with the occiput not overly pronounced. The forehead shows a slight indentation between the eyes and forms a distinct stop with the topline of the muzzle. The cheeks should be relatively flat and not bulge (cheekiness), maintaining the clean lines of the skull as they taper into the muzzle in a slight, graceful curve.\
Boxer|Coat|Short, shiny, lying smooth and tight to the body.\
Boxer|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are strongly muscled, with angulation in balance with that of the forequarters. The thighs are broad and curved, the breech musculature hard and strongly developed. Upper and lower thighs are long. The legs are well-angulated at the stifle, neither too steep nor over-angulated, with clearly defined, well "let down" hock joints. Viewed from behind, the hind legs should be straight, with hock joints leaning neither in nor out. From the side, the leg below the hock (metatarsus) should be almost perpendicular to the ground, with a slight slope to the rear permissible. The metatarsus should be short, clean, and strong. The Boxer has no rear dewclaws.\
Boxer|Fun Fact|The Boxer was one of the first breeds selected in Germany for police training.\
Boxer|Health|Boxers are generally a healthy breed.\
Boxer|Grooming|The Boxer\'92s short, shiny and smooth-lying coat requires little grooming.\
Boxer|General Appearance|TheidealBoxer is a medium-sized, square-built dog of good substance with short back, strong limbs, and short, tight-fitting coat. His well-developed muscles are clean, hard, and appear smooth under taut skin. His movements denote energy. The gait is firm yet elastic, the stride free and ground-covering, the carriage proud. Developed to serve as guard, working, and companion dog, he combines strength and agility with elegance and style. His expression is alert and his temperament steadfast and tractable.The chiseled head imparts to the Boxer a unique individual stamp. It must be in correct proportion to the body. The broad, blunt muzzle is the distinctive feature, and great value is placed upon its being of proper form and balance with the skull.\
Boxer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Boxers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Boxer|Exercise|Very Active; Boxers are strong, quick, busy dogs who need plenty of exercise; they enjoy physical & mental challenges\
Boxer|History|1904 - The Boxer was officially recognized by the AKC\
Golden Retriever|Body|Neckmedium long, merging gradually into shoulders, sturdy and muscular.Backstrong and level from withers to slightly sloping croup. Body is well-balanced,\'a0short coupled, with deep chest and well-developed forechest. Ribs long and wellsprung\'a0but not barrel shaped. Loin short, muscular, wide and deep.\
Golden Retriever|Forequarters|Muscular, well co-ordinated and capable of free movement.\'a0Shoulder blades long and well laid back with upper tips fairly close together. Elbows\'a0close to the ribs without looseness. Legs straight, with good bone but not coarse.Pasterns short and strong, sloping slightly. Dewclaws on forelegs are normally left on.\'a0Feet- medium size, round and compact with thick pads.\
Golden Retriever|Head|Broad inskull, slightly arched laterally and longitudinally without prominence of frontal bones (forehead) or occipital bones. Stop well defined but not abrupt. Foreface deep and wide, nearly as long as skull.Muzzlestraight in profile, blending smooth and strongly into skull; when viewed in profile or from above, slightly deeper and wider at stop than at tip. No heaviness in flews. Removal of whiskers is permitted but not preferred.Eyesfriendly and intelligent in expression, medium large with dark, close-fitting rims, set well apart and reasonably deep in sockets. Color preferably dark brown; medium brown acceptable.\
Golden Retriever|Coat|Dense and water-repellent with good undercoat. Outer coat firm and resilient,\'a0lying close to body,may be straight or wavy. Untrimmed natural ruff on neck,\'a0moderate feathering on back of forelegs and on underbody; heavier feathering on front\'a0of neck, back of thighs and underside of tail. Coat on head, paws, and front of legs is\'a0short and even. Color-- rich, lustrous golden of various shades. Feathering may be\'a0lighter than rest of coat.\
Golden Retriever|Hindquarters|Broad and strongly muscled. Croup slopes only slightly. Stifles\'a0well angulated. Good length of thighs, short, strong rear pasterns.. Feet as in front.\'a0Tail-- thick and muscular at the base, following the natural line of the croup. Tailbones extend to the point of the hock. Carried level in action, or with slight upward\'a0curve; never curled over back.\
Golden Retriever|Fun Fact|Golden Retrievers are used successfully in field trials, hunting, obedience, and as guide dogs for the blind.\
Golden Retriever|Health|Golden Retrievers are generally a healthy breed.\
Golden Retriever|Grooming|The Golden\'92s water-repellant double-coat sheds seasonally and needs regular brushing as a part of his weekly grooming.\
Golden Retriever|General Appearance|A symmetrical, powerful, active dog, sound and well put together, not clumsy nor long in the leg, displaying a kindly expression and possessing a personality that is eager, alert and self-confident. Primarily a hunting dog, he should be shown in hard working condition. Overall appearance, balance, gait and purpose to be given more emphasis than any of his component parts. Faults-Any departure from the described ideal shall be considered faulty to the degree to which it interferes with the breed's purpose or is contrary to breed character.\
Golden Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Golden Retriever is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Golden Retriever|Exercise|Very Active; This dog is active and energetic, and needs daily exercise.\
Golden Retriever|History|1925 - The Golden Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC.\
English Foxhound|Coat|Not regarded as very important, so long as the former is a good "hound color," and the latter is short, dense, hard, and glossy. Hound colors are black, tan, and white, or any combination of these three, also the various "pies" compounded of white and the color of the hare and badger, or yellow, or tan. The symmetry of the Foxhound is of the greatest importance, and what is known as "quality" is highly regarded by all good judges.\
English Foxhound|Health|English Foxhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
English Foxhound|Fun Fact|In appearance, the English Foxhound is far stouter than its American counterpart.\
English Foxhound|Grooming|The breed\'92s short, dense, hard, and glossy coat requires minimal maintenance.\
English Foxhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for English Foxhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
English Foxhound|Exercise|Very Active; These galloping athletes require lots of exercise and running room.\
English Foxhound|History|1909 - The English Foxhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Australian Shepherd|Body|Neck, Topline, Body:shoulders.Topline- Back is straight and strong, level and firm from withers to hip joints. The croup is moderately sloped.Body- Chest is not broad but is deep with the lowest point reaching the elbow. The ribs are well sprung and long, neither barrel chested nor slab-sided. The underline shows a moderate tuck-up.\
Australian Shepherd|Forequarters|Shoulder blades are long, flat, fairly close set at the withers and well laid back. The upper arm, which should be relatively the same length as the shoulder blade, attaches at an approximate right angle to the shoulder line with forelegs dropping straight, perpendicular to the ground. Legs straight and strong. Bone is strong, oval rather than round. Pastern is medium length and very slightly sloped. Front dewclaws may be removed. Feet are oval, compact with close knit, well arched toes. Pads are thick and resilient.\
Australian Shepherd|Head|Theheadis clean cut, strong and dry. Overall size should be in proportion to the body. The muzzle is equal in length or slightly shorter than the back skull. Viewed from the side the topline of the back skull and muzzle form parallel planes, divided by a moderate, well-defined stop. The muzzle tapers little from base to nose and is rounded at the tip.\
Australian Shepherd|Coat|Hair is of medium texture, straight to wavy, weather resistant and of medium length. The undercoat varies in quantity with variations in climate. Hair is short and smooth on the head, ears, front of forelegs and below the hocks. Backs of forelegs and britches are moderately feathered. There is a moderate mane and frill, more pronounced in dogs than in bitches. Non-typical coats are severe faults.\
Australian Shepherd|Hindquarters|The width of the hindquarters is equal to the width of the forequarters at the shoulders. The angulation of the pelvis and upper thigh corresponds to the angulation of the shoulder blade and upper arm, forming an approximate right angle. Stifles are clearly defined, hock joints moderately bent. The hocks are short, perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other when viewed from the rear. Rear dewclaws must be removed. Feet are oval, compact with close knit, well arched toes. Pads are thick and resilient.\
Australian Shepherd|Fun Fact|The Aussie as we know it today developed in the US.\
Australian Shepherd|Health|Most Aussies are energetic dogs that require vigorous daily exercise to keep them healthy and happy.\
Australian Shepherd|Grooming|Their thick water-resistant coats require weekly brushing.\
Australian Shepherd|General Appearance|The Australian Shepherd is an intelligent working dog of strong herding and guarding instincts. He is a loyal companion and has the stamina to work all day. He is well balanced, slightly longer than tall, of medium size and bone, with coloring that offers variety and individuality. He is attentive and animated, lithe and agile, solid and muscular without cloddiness. He has a coat of moderate length and coarseness. He has a docked or natural bobbed tail.\
Australian Shepherd|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Australian Shepherds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Australian Shepherd|Exercise|Very Active; True working dogs, unemployment doesn't agree with these guys.\
Australian Shepherd|History|1991 - The Australian Shepherd was officially recognized by the AKC\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Body|Neck- The neck is long and strong, without throatiness, and flows smoothly into the shoulders.Topline- The back is visibly level from withers to croup. There is a barely perceptible rise over a strong loin. Viewed in profile, the withers and the croup should be equidistant from the ground.Bodymuscular, somewhat longer than tall. Compact, casual in appearance, with no feature exaggerated and his parts in balance. Chestrather deep, with prominent sternum. Ribs moderately rounded, extending well back. Loinshort, strong, and muscular. There is but little tuck-up.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Forequarters|Shoulders clean and well laid back. Upper arm approximately equal in length to the shoulder blade. Elbows close to the body. Legs - The length of leg from elbow to ground should be slightly more than half the height from withers to ground. Viewed from the front, it is desirable that the forelegs be straight, but a slight crook is acceptable. In either case, the leg appears straight, is strong and well boned, but never coarse nor weedy. Improperly constructed front assemblies, including poor shoulder placement, short upper arms, out at elbows, lack of angulation and fiddle fronts, are all serious faults. Pasterns strong and slightly sloping. Any tendency to knuckle over is a serious fault. Dewclaws may, or may not, be removed. Feet not too long, between hare and cat foot, with hard, tight pads. The nails are strong and short.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Head|The head is carried proudly and, in size, mu st be in balance with the overall dog. It is longer than its width in a ratio of approximately two to one. A coarse or overly large head is to be penalized.Expressionalert, friendly and intelligent.Eyeslarge and dark with good pigmentation, somewhat oval in shape, showing no white. The red of the lower eyelid should not show. The eyes are surmounted by long eyebrows, standing forward, but not obscuring the eyes.Earssupple, narrow and fine, covered with long hair, folding inward and ending in an oval shape. The leathers reach almost to the end of the nose. They are set on low, below the line of the eyes. An overly long or high-set ear should be penalized.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Coat|The coat is rough, long without exaggeration and harsh to the touch, with a thick shorter undercoat. It is never silky or woolly. The eyes are surmounted by long eyebrows, standing forward but not obscuring the eyes. The ears are covered by long hair. The lips are covered by long hair forming a beard and moustache. The tail is well furnished with hair. The overall appearance is casual and tousled.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Hindquarters|Strong and muscular with good bend of stifle. A well-defined second thigh. Hips wide, thighs well muscled. Hocks are short and well angulated, perpendicular from hock to ground. Feet are as in front. Except that they must point straight ahead.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Fun Fact|Date Petit Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en entered into Regular Classes: February 1, 1991.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Health|Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen are generally a healthy breed.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Grooming|If a PBGV possesses the correct harsh coat, he will require a thorough weekly brush out to stay in condition.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|General Appearance|The Petit Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en is a French scent hound developed first and foremost to hunt small game over the rough and difficult terrain of the Vend\'e9en region. To function efficiently, he must be equipped with certain characteristics. He is bold and vivacious in character; compact, tough and robust in construction. He has an alert outlook, lively bearing and a good voice freely and purposefully used.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the PBGVs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|Exercise|Confident, happy and extroverted, the PBGV is best suited to the active, experienced dog owner.\
Petit Basset Griffon Vendeen|History|1990 - The Petit Basset Griffon Vend\'e9en was officially recognized by the AKC.\
West Highland White Terrier|Body|Neck-Muscular and well set on sloping shoulders. The length of neck should be in proportion to the remainder of the dog.\'a0Faults - Neck too long or too short.Topline-Flat and level, both standing and moving.\'a0Faults - High rear, any deviation from above.Body-Compact and of good substance. Ribs deep and well arched in the upper half of rib, extending at least to the elbows, and presenting a flattish side appearance. Back ribs of considerable depth, and distance from last rib to upper thigh as short as compatible with free movement of the body. Chest very deep and extending to the elbows, with breadth in proportion to the size of the dog. Loin short, broad and strong.\'a0Faults - Back weak, either too long or too short. Barrel ribs, ribs above elbows.\
West Highland White Terrier|Forequarters|Angulation, Shoulders - Shoulder blades are well laid back and well knit at the backbone. The shoulder blade should attach to an upper arm of moderate length, and sufficient angle to allow for definite body overhang.\'a0Faults - Steep or loaded shoulders. Upper arm too short or too straight.\'a0Legs - Forelegs are muscular and well boned. relatively short, but with sufficient length to set the dog up so as not to be too close to the ground. The legs are reasonably straight, and thickly covered with short hard hair.\
West Highland White Terrier|Head|Shaped to present a round appearance from the front. Should be in proportion to the body.Expression-Piercing, inquisitive, pert.Eyes-Widely set apart, medium in size, almond shaped, dark brown in color, deep set, sharp and intelligent. Looking from under heavy eyebrows, they give a piercing look. Eye rims are black.\'a0Faults - Small, full or light colored eyes.Ears-Small, carried tightly erect, set wide apart, on the top outer edge of the skull. They terminate in a sharp point, and must never be cropped. The hair on the ears is trimmed short and is smooth and velvety, free of fringe at the tips. Black skin pigmentation is preferred.\'a0Faults - Round-pointed, broad, large, ears set closely together, not held tightly erect, or placed too low on the side of the head.\
West Highland White Terrier|Coat|Very important and seldom seen to perfection. Must be double-coated. The head is shaped by plucking the hair, to present the round appearance. The outer coat consists of straight hard white hair, about two inches long, with shorter coat on neck and shoulders, properly blended and trimmed to blend shorter areas into furnishings, which are longer on stomach and legs. The ideal coat is hard, straight and white, but a hard straight coat which may have some wheaten tipping is preferable to a white fluffy or soft coat. Furnishings may be somewhat softer and longer but should never give the appearance of fluff.\'a0Faults - Soft coat. Any silkiness or tendency to curl. Any open or single coat, or one which is too short.\
West Highland White Terrier|Hindquarters|Angulation - Thighs are very muscular, well angulated, not set wide apart, with hock well bent, short, and parallel when viewed from the rear.\'a0Legs - Rear legs are muscular and relatively short and sinewy. Faults - Weak hocks, long hocks, lack of angulation. Cowhocks.\'a0 Feet - Hind feet are smaller than front feet, and are thickly padded. Dewclaws may be removed.\
West Highland White Terrier|Fun Fact|The all-white coat of the West Highland White Terrier should be hard to the touch, never soft and fluffy.\
West Highland White Terrier|Health|West Highland White Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
West Highland White Terrier|Grooming|Westies have a stiff, dry coat.\
West Highland White Terrier|General Appearance|The West Highland White Terrier is a small, game, well-balanced hardy looking terrier, exhibiting good showmanship, possessed with no small amount of self-esteem, strongly built, deep in chest and back ribs, with a straight back and powerful hindquarters on muscular legs, and exhibiting in marked degree a great combination of strength and activity. The coat is about two inches long, white in color, hard, with plenty of soft undercoat. The dog should be neatly presented, the longer coat on the back and sides, trimmed to blend into the shorter neck and shoulder coat. Considerable hair is left around the head to act as a frame for the face to yield a typical Westie expression.\
West Highland White Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for West Highland White Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
West Highland White Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; true terriers, Westies are quick, curious, and lively.\
West Highland White Terrier|History|1908 - The West Highland White Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Catahoula Leopard Dog|Fun Fact|In 1979, the Catahoula Leopard Dog was named the state dog of Louisiana.\
Chow Chow|Body|Neckstrong, full, well muscled, nicely arched and of sufficient length to carry the head proudly above the topline when standing at attention.Toplinestraight, strong and level from the withers to the root of the tail.Bodyshort, compact, close coupled, strongly muscled, broad, deep and well let down in the flank. The body, back, coupling and croup must all be short to give the required square build. Chest broad, deep and muscular, never narrow or slab-sided. The ribs close together and well sprung, not barrel. The spring of the front ribs is somewhat narrowed at their lower ends to permit the shoulder and upper arm to fit smoothly against the chest wall. The floor of the chest is broad and deep extending down to the tips of the elbows. The point of sternum slightly in front of the shoulder points.\
Chow Chow|Forequarters|Shoulders strong, well muscled, the tips of the shoulder blades moderately close together; the spine of the shoulder forms an angle approximately 55 degrees with the horizontal and forms an angle with the upper arm approximately 110 degrees.\'a0 Length of upper arm never less than length of shoulder blade.\'a0 Elbow joints set well back alongside the chest wall, elbows turning neither in nor out.\'a0 Forelegs perfectly straight from elbow to foot with heavy bone which must be in proportion to the rest of the dog.\'a0 Viewed from the front, the forelegs are parallel and widely spaced commensurate with the broad chest.\'a0 Pasterns short and upright.\'a0 Wrists shall not knuckle over.\'a0 The dewclaws may be removed.\'a0 Feet round, compact, catlike, standing well upon the thick toe pads.\
Chow Chow|Head|Proudly carried, large in proportion to the size of the dog but never so exaggerated as to make the dog seem top-heavy or to result in a low carriage.Expressionessentially scowling, dignified, lordly, discerning, sober and snobbish, one of independence. The scowl is achieved by a marked brow with a padded button of skin just above the inner, upper corner of each eye; by sufficient play of skin to form frowning brows and a distinct furrow between the eyes beginning at the base of the muzzle and extending up the forehead; by the correct eye shape and placement and by the correct ear shape, carriage and placement. Excessive loose skin is not desirable. Wrinkles on the muzzle do not contribute to expression and are not required.\
Chow Chow|Coat|There are two types of coat; rough and smooth. Both are double coated. Rough - In the rough coat, the outer coat is abundant, dense, straight and offstanding, rather coarse in texture; the undercoat soft, thick and wooly. Puppy coat soft, thick and wooly overall. The coat forms a profuse ruff around the head and neck, framing the head. The coat and ruff generally longer in dogs than in bitches. Tail well feathered. The coat length varies markedly on different Chows and thickness, texture and condition should be given greater emphasis than length. Obvious trimming or shaping is undesirable. Trimming of the whiskers, feet and metatarsals optional. Smooth - The smooth coated Chow is judged by the same standard as the rough coated Chow except that references to the quantity and distribution of the outer coat are not applicable to the smooth coated Chow, which has a hard, dense, smooth outer coat with a definite undercoat. There should be no obvious ruff or feathering on the legs or tail.\
Chow Chow|Hindquarters|The rear assembly broad, powerful, and well muscled in the hips and thighs, heavy in bone with rear and front bone approximately equal. Viewed from the rear, the legs are straight, parallel and widely spaced commensurate with the broad pelvis. Stifle Joint shows little angulation, is well knit and stable, points straight forward and the bones of the joint should be clean and sharp. Hock Joint well let down and appears almost straight. The hock joint must be strong, well knit and firm, never bowing or breaking forward or to either side. The hock joint and metatarsals lie in a straight line below the hip joint.\
Chow Chow|Fun Fact|The Chow-Chow has a blue-black tongue, unique to the breed and the Chinese Shar-Pei only.\
Chow Chow|Health|Chow Chows are generally a healthy breed.\
Chow Chow|Grooming|A beautiful well-groomed Chow Chow is one of the most beautiful dogs to look at.\
Chow Chow|General Appearance|A powerful, sturdy, squarely built, upstanding dog of Arctic type, medium in size with strong muscular development and heavy bone.\'a0 The body is compact, short coupled, broad and deep, the tail set high and carried closely to the back, the whole supported by four straight, strong, sound legs.\'a0 Viewed from the side, the hind legs have little apparent angulation and the hock joint and metatarsals are directly beneath the hip joint.\'a0 It is this structure which produces the characteristic shorter, stilted gait unique to the breed.\'a0 The large head with broad, flat skull and short, broad and deep muzzle is proudly carried and accentuated by a ruff.\'a0 Elegance and substance must be combined into a well balanced whole, never so massive as to outweigh his ability to be active, alert and agile.\'a0 Clothed in a smooth or an offstanding rough double coat, the Chow is a masterpiece of beauty, dignity and naturalness.\'a0 Essential to true Chow type are his uniqueblue-black tongue, scowling expression and stilted gait.\
Chow Chow|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Chow Chows is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chow Chow|Exercise|Serene and adaptable, with no special exercise needs, Chows happily take to apartment living.\
Chow Chow|History|1903 - The Chow Chow was officially recognized by the AKC\
Bloodhound|Body|The neck is long, the shoulders muscular and well sloped backwards; the ribs are well sprung; and the chest well let down between the forelegs, forming a deep keel.\
Bloodhound|Head|Theheadis narrow in proportion to its length, and long in proportion to the body, tapering but slightly from the temples to the end of the muzzle, thus (when viewed from above and in front) having the appearance of being flattened at the sides and of being nearly equal in width throughout its entire length. In profile the upper outline of the skull is nearly in the same plane as that of the foreface. The length from end of nose to stop (midway between the eyes) should be not less than that from stop to back of occipital protuberance (peak). The entire length of head from the posterior part of the occipital protuberance to the end of the muzzle should be 12 inches, or more, in dogs, and 11 inches, or more, in bitches.\
Bloodhound|Health|Adequate exercise in a securely fenced outdoor area, good nutrition, and routine grooming equal a healthy Bloodhound.\
Bloodhound|Fun Fact|Testimony of a Bloodhound's mantrailing results is acceptable in almost any court.\
Bloodhound|Grooming|Bloodhounds should be groomed weekly.\
Bloodhound|General Appearance|The Bloodhound possesses, in a most marked degree, every point and characteristic of those dogs which hunt together by scent (Sagaces). He is very powerful, and stands over more ground than is usual with hounds of other breeds. The skin is thin to the touch and extremely loose, this being especially noticeable about the head and neck, where it hangs in deep folds.\
Bloodhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bloodhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bloodhound|Exercise|Bred to live in packs, Bloodhounds enjoy company, including other dogs and children.\
Bloodhound|History|1885 - The Bloodhound was officially recognized by the AKC\
German Spitz|Fun Fact|The German Spitz has been assigned the Non-Sporting Group designation.\
German Longhaired Pointer|Health|German Longhaired Pointers are generally a healthy breed.\
German Longhaired Pointer|Fun Fact|The German Longhaired Pointer has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
German Longhaired Pointer|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
German Longhaired Pointer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for German Longhaired Pointers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
German Longhaired Pointer|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
German Longhaired Pointer|History|2010 - The German Longhaired Pointer was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Body|Neck-Fairly long, without throatiness, well enough muscled to form a slight arch at the crest. Set smoothly into nicely sloping shoulders to give an elegant look.Topline-Level both when moving and standing.Body-Short-coupled with ribs well sprung but not barrelled. Chest moderately deep, extending to elbows allowing ample heart room. Slightly less body at the flank than at the last rib, but with no tucked-up appearance.Tail-Well set on, carried happily but never much above the level of the back, and in constant characteristic motion when the dog is in action. Docking is optional. If docked, no more than one third to be removed.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0well laid back.\'a0Forelegs\'a0straight and well under the dog with elbows close to the sides. Pasterns\'a0strong and feet compact with well-cushioned pads. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Head|Proportionate to size of dog, appearing neither too large nor too small for the body.Expression-The sweet, gentle, melting expression is an important breed characteristic.Eyes-Large, round, but not prominent and set well apart; color a warm, very dark brown; giving a lustrous, limpid look. Rims dark. There should be cushioning under the eyes which contributes to the soft expression.Faults-small, almond-shaped, prominent, or light eyes; white surrounding ring.Ears-Set high, but not close, on top of the head. Leather long with plenty of feathering and wide enough so that when the dog is alert, the ears fan slightly forward to frame the face.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Coat|Of moderate length, silky, free from curl. Slight wave permissible. Feathering on ears, chest, legs and tail should be long, and the feathering on the feet is a feature of the breed. No trimming of the dog is permitted.Specimens where the coat has been altered by trimming, clipping, or by artificial means shall be so severely penalized as to be effectively eliminated from competition. Hair growing between the pads on the underside of the feet may be trimmed.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Hindquarters|The hindquarters construction should come down from a good broad pelvis, moderately muscled; stifles well turned and hocks well let down. The hindlegs when viewed from the rear should parallel each other from hock to heel.\'a0Faults\'a0- Cow or sickle hocks.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Fun Fact|The Cavalier was featured on the hit HBO series, "Sex and the City," as Charlotte York's dog.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Health|Your puppy's health-conscious breeder has probably had his sire and dam tested for inherited eye defects.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Grooming|The Cavalier\'92s glamorous, colorful silk coat is kept natural and untrimmed but needs regular weekly brushing.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|General Appearance|The Cavalier King Charles Spaniel is an active, graceful, well-balanced toy spaniel, very gay and free in action; fearless and sporting in character, yet at the same time gentle and affectionate. It is this typical gay temperament, combined with true elegance and royal appearance which are of paramount importance in the breed. Natural appearance with no trimming, sculpting or artificial alteration is essential to breed type.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cavaliers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|Exercise|Cavaliers get along well with children and other dogs and can be a bit quiet.\
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel|History|1995 - The Cavalier King Charles Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|Health|Caucasian Ovcharkas are generally a healthy breed.\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|Fun Fact|The Caucasian Ovcharka has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|Grooming|The breed's long haired coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Caucasian Ovcharkas is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|Exercise|The Caucasian Ovcharka, like all dogs, needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Caucasian Shepherd Dog|History|1996 - The Caucasian Shepherd Dog was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
American Hairless Terrier|Body|The body is slightly longer than tall. Length of the front leg (measured from point of elbow to the ground) should approximately equal one-half of the dog's height. The loin is moderately short, slightly arched, and muscular, with moderate tuck-up and the croup is slightly sloping. Ribs extend well back and are well sprung out from the spine, forming a broad, strong back, then curving down and inward to form a deep body. Brisket extends to or just below the elbow. The chest between the forelegs is well filled and of moderate width when viewed from the front. The forechest extends in a shallow oval shape in front of the forelegs when viewed from the side.\
American Hairless Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders blades are well laid back with the upper tips fairly close together at the withers. The upper arm appears equal in length to the shoulder blade and joins at an apparent right angle. Shoulders are smoothly muscled and the elbows are close to the body. Forelegs are straight and strong when viewed from any angle and sturdy in bone. Pasterns are strong, short, and nearly vertical. Feet-Feet are slightly oval in shape and compact. The two middle toes are slightly longer than the other toes.\
American Hairless Terrier|Head|Expression- is alert, curious and intelligent. Viewed from the front or side the head forms a blunt wedge shape and is proportionate to the size of the body.\'a0Eyes are expressive, set obliquely, round, somewhat prominent but moderate in size, and of matching color. Eye color varies with body color from darkest brown to amber and hazel. When eyes are brown, a darker brown is preferred. Amber eyes are permissible for a blue dog. Blue eyes are acceptable in blue or blue fawn dogs only but gray is preferred. Eye rim pigmentation corresponds with the nose color.\
American Hairless Terrier|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are muscular. Upper and lower thighs being approximately equal in length. Angulation of the hindquarters and forequarters are in balance with each other. Stifles are well-bent and the hocks are well let down. The short, strong rear pasterns are perpendicular to the ground and when viewed from the rear they are parallel to one another.\
American Hairless Terrier|Fun Fact|The American Hairless Terrier has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since October 2011.\
American Hairless Terrier|Health|American Hairless Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
American Hairless Terrier|Grooming|The breed's coat needs only weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush.\
American Hairless Terrier|General Appearance|The American Hairless Terrier is a small to medium sized, smoothly muscled and active terrier. Ancestors of the breed were bred to hunt rats and other vermin. The lack of coat on the hairless variety of the American Hairless Terrier renders them unsuited for most hunting activities. They have, however, retained a strong hunting instinct and excel in many other activities and sports. The breed is energetic, alert, curious and intelligent.\
American Hairless Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for American Hairless Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
American Hairless Terrier|Exercise|Intelligent, easy to care for.\
American Hairless Terrier|History|2016 - The American Hairless Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Body|Neck- Fairly long. Of sufficient length to provide over-all balance of the dog. Slightly arched, clean and blending well into the shoulders. A very short neck giving a stuffy appearance and a long, thin or ewe neck are faulty.Topline- Firm and level, neither riding up to nor falling away at the croup. A slight depression behind the shoulders caused by heavier neck coat meeting the shorter body coat is permissible.Body- Rib cage should be well sprung, slightly egg-shaped and moderately long. Deep chest, well let down between the forelegs. Exaggerated lowness interferes with the desired freedom of movement and should be penalized. Viewed from above, the body should taper slightly to end of loin. Loin short. Round or flat rib cage, lack of brisket, extreme length or cobbiness, are undesirable.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Forequarters|Legs - Short, forearms turned slightly inward, with the distance between wrists less than between the shoulder joints, so that the front does not appear absolutely straight. Ample bone carried right down into the feet. Pasterns firm and nearly straight when viewed from the side. Weak pasterns and knuckling over are serious faults. Shoulder blades long and well laid back along the rib cage. Upper arms nearly equal in length to shoulder blades. Elbows parallel to the body, not prominent, and well set back to allow a line perpendicular to the ground to be drawn from tip of the shoulder blade through to elbow.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Head|Theheadshould be foxy in shape and appearance.Expression- Intelligent and interested, but not sly.Skull- should be fairly wide and flat between the ears. Moderate amount of stop. Very slight rounding of cheek, not filled in below the eyes, as foreface should be nicely chiseled to give a somewhat tapered muzzle. Distance from occiput to center of stop to be greater than the distance from stop to nose tip, the proportion being five parts of total distance for the skull and three parts for the foreface.Muzzleshould be neither dish-faced nor Roman-nosed.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Coat|Medium length; short, thick, weather- resistant undercoat with a coarser, longer outer coat. Over-all length varies, with slightly thicker and longer ruff around the neck, chest and on the shoulders. The body coat lies flat. Hair is slightly longer on back of forelegs and underparts and somewhat fuller and longer on rear of hindquarters. The coat is preferably straight, but some waviness is permitted. This breed has a shedding coat, and seasonal lack of undercoat should not be too severely penalized, providing the hair is glossy, healthy and well groomed. A wiry, tightly marcelled coat is very faulty, as is an overly short, smooth and thin coat. Very Serious Fault- Fluffies- a coat of extreme length with exaggerated feathering on ears, chest, legs and feet, underparts and hindquarters. Trimming such a coat does not make it any more acceptable. The Corgi should be shown in its natural condition, with no trimming permitted except to tidy the feet, and, if desired, remove the whiskers.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Hindquarters|Ample bone, strong and flexible, moderately angulated at stifle and hock. Exaggerated angulation is as faulty as too little. Thighs should be well muscled. Hocks short, parallel, and when viewed from the side are perpendicular to the ground. Barrel hocks or cowhocks are most objectionable. Slipped or double-jointed hocks are very faulty. Feet - as in front.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Fun Fact|The Pembroke Welsh Corgi, unlike the Cardigan, has no tail.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Health|Pembroke Welsh Corgis are generally a healthy breed.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|General Appearance|Low-set, strong, sturdily built and active, giving an impression of substance and stamina in a small space. Should not be so low and heavy-boned as to appear coarse or overdone, nor so light-boned as to appear racy. Outlook bold, but kindly. Expression intelligent and interested. Never shy nor vicious.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Pembroke Welsh Corgis is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|Exercise|Very Active; A strong and athletic little dog, the Pembroke loves physical activity and is happiest when he has a job.\
Pembroke Welsh Corgi|History|1934 - The Pembroke Welsh Corgi was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Body|Neck,of medium length, is muscular and strong. It is broad without dewlap and carried not more than 45 degrees to the ground when moving. Profuse hair and a large head optically make the neck look shorter than it actually is. The backshould be neither too long nor too short for proper balance and movement.Withers are well pronounced and broad. The chest is deep, of medium width, with forechest well-defined. Depth of chest is to the elbow, approximately 50 percent of the height of the dog. The ribs are well sprung, neither barrel chested nor slab-sided. Thetoplineis level. The loin is well muscled and broad giving the impression of being short. The croup is slightly cut but only to a small degree. The belly is slightly drawn up.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Forequarters|The shoulders are heavily muscled and well laid back. The legs are straight and vertical with heavy bone. The pasterns are slightly slanting in relation to the forearm and flexible without weakness. The feet are oval and tight with the front feet larger than the rear feet. Toes are arched.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Head|The medium-sizedheadis in proportion to the body. The profuse hair on the forehead, cheeks and chin make the head look bigger than it actually is.Skullis moderately broad and slightly domed. The forehead furrow and occiput are palpable. The stop has a pronounced indentation but never as pronounced as a round-skull breed.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Coat|It is doubled coated. The entire body is covered with a long, dense, shaggy, thick coat that is reasonably straight. The outercoat should be crisp with a water resistant texture. The undercoat is soft and dense. Different coat colors will have different textures with the black coat having little or no coarse outercoat and less undercoat. Characteristically, long hanging hair covers the eyes. A slight wavy coat is acceptable.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Hindquarters|Large, heavily boned, and well muscled with well bent stifles. In normal stance, the bones below the hocks are perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other when viewed from the rear. The hind feet fall just behind a perpendicular line from the point of buttocks to the ground when viewed from the side. Feet are oval with tight, arched toes. Pads are hard. Nails are preferably dark.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Fun Fact|In Poland, the breed has been featured on stamps.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Health|Polish Lowland Sheepdogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Grooming|The breed's coat requires daily brushing to prevent mats.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|General Appearance|Medium-sized, compact, strong and muscular with a long, thick coat and hanging hair that covers the eyes. He is shaggy and natural in appearance with a docked or natural bobbed tail. His herding and working ability is attributed to an intense desire to please and compatible nature. He is lively but self-controlled, clever and perceptive. The breed is well known for an excellent memory and the ability to work independent of his master.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Polish Lowland Sheepdogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|Exercise|Very Active; Born workers, PONs thrive on exercise and activity.\
Polish Lowland Sheepdog|History|2001 - The Polish Lowland Sheepdog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Chinook|Forequarters|The shoulders are moderately laid back with the shoulder and upper arm forming an angle of approximately 110 degrees. The shoulder blade and upper arm are equal in length. The forelegs are straight, well-muscled, with moderate, oval bone. When viewed from the front, the legs\'a0are parallel, and straight. The elbows turn neither in nor out.\
Chinook|Head|Theheadis broad, wedge-shaped,\'a0and impressive but in balance with the size of the dog.\'a0 Cheeks are well-developed and slightly rounded.\'a0Theexpressionis intelligent, inquisitive and kind.\'a0 Theeyesare medium in size and almond in shape with black rims. The eye can be any shade of brown but dark brown is preferred. Dark markings around the eye that accentuate the eye and give character are desirable. Extended black pigment in an apostrophe shape at the inner corner of each eye is preferred. Disqualification-Any eye color other than brown.\'a0 Theearsare set near the top line of the skull.\'a0 They are medium in size, V-shaped, and slightly rounded at the tip. The ear tip should be just long enough to reach the inside corner of the eye. Any ear type is allowed, including drop, prick,\'a0or propeller ears that maintain\'a0a fold when at attention.\'a0For aesthetic purposes, dropped and matched ears are preferred.\
Chinook|Coat|The Chinook has a thick double coat lying close to the body. The outer coat is straight, strong, and coarse. The length of the outer coat is longer over the ruff, shoulder blades, withers, breeches, and along the underline and the underside of the tail but is never so long as to obscure the clean-cut outline of the dog. The undercoat is short and dense, downy in texture, providing insulation. The groin and inside of the rear legs are protected by coat. A winter coat feels soft and plush with coarser hair following the topline. A summer coat may be thinner, feel coarser, and should not be penalized.\
Chinook|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are muscular and strong, moderately angulated, and in balance with the forequarters. The slope of the pelvis is approximately 30 degrees off the horizontal with the angle of the stifle at about 110 degrees.\'a0 The upper and lower thigh muscles are well-defined.\
Chinook|Fun Fact|In 1965, the Guinness Book of World Records recorded the Chinook for the first of three times as the rarest dog, with only 125 dogs alive.\
Chinook|Health|Chinooks are generally a healthy breed.\
Chinook|Grooming|Chinooks require little grooming but must be kept on a regular schedule for good coat health.\
Chinook|General Appearance|The Chinook was developed in the United States as a sled dog whose function was drafting and sled dog racing. Bred to combine the power of freighting breeds with the speed of the lighter racing sled dogs, he is an athletic, hard bodied dog showing good forward reach and rear extension in a seemingly tireless gait. The Chinook is an impressive dog, with an aquiline muzzle, dark almond eyes, black eye markings, a variety of ear carriages, and a tawny, close fitting coat. His saber tail is held in a graceful sickle curve. The male should appear unquestionably masculine; the female should have a distinctly feminine look and be judged equally with the male. A dignified and affectionate family dog, the Chinook is known for his love of children. The Chinook is to be presented in a natural condition with no trimming. The following is a description of the ideal Chinook.\
Chinook|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Chinooks is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chinook|Exercise|The Chinook is a playful, eager to please family companion that loves children.\
Chinook|History|2010 - The Chinook was officially recognized by the AKC..\
Irish Setter|Body|Neckmoderately long, strong but not thick, and slightly arched; free from throatiness and fitting smoothly into the shoulders.Toplineof body from withers to tail should be firm and incline slightly downward without sharp drop at the croup. Thetailis set on nearly level with the croup as a natural extension of the topline, strong at root, tapering to a fine point, nearly long enough to reach the hock. Carriage straight or curving slightly upward, nearly level with the back.Bodysufficiently long to permit a straight and free stride. Chest deep, reaching approximately to the elbows with moderate forechest, extending beyond the point where the shoulder joins the upper arm. Chest is of moderate width so that it does not interfere with forward motion and extends rearwards to well sprung ribs. Loins firm, muscular and of moderate length.\
Irish Setter|Forequarters|Shoulder blades long, wide, sloping well back, fairly close together at the withers. Upper arm and shoulder blades are approximately the same length, and are joined at sufficient angle to bring the elbows rearward along the brisket in line with the top of the withers. The elbows moving freely, incline neither in nor out. Forelegs straight and sinewy. Strong, nearly straight pastern. Feet rather small, very firm, toes arched and close.\
Irish Setter|Head|Long and lean, its length at least double the width between the ears. Beauty ofheadis emphasized by delicate chiseling along the muzzle, around and below the eyes, and along the cheeks.Expressionsoft, yet alert.Eyessomewhat almond shaped, of medium size, placed rather well apart, neither deep set nor bulging. Color, dark to medium brown.Earsset well back and low, not above level of eye. Leather thin, hanging in a neat fold close to the head, and nearly long enough to reach the nose.\
Irish Setter|Coat|Short and fine on head and forelegs. On all other parts of moderate length and flat. Feathering long and silky on ears; on back of forelegs and thighs long and fine, with a pleasing fringe of hair on belly and brisket extending onto the chest. Fringe on tail moderately long and tapering. All coat and feathering as straight and free as possible from curl or wave. The Irish Setter is trimmed for the show ring to emphasize the lean head and clean neck. The top third of the ears and the throat nearly to the breastbone are trimmed. Excess feathering is removed to show the natural outline of the foot. All trimming is done to preserve the natural appearance of the dog.\
Irish Setter|Hindquarters|Hindquarters should be wide and powerful with broad, well developed thighs. Hind legs long and muscular from hip to hock; short and perpendicular from hock to ground; well angulated at stifle and hock joints, which, like the elbows, incline neither in nor out. Feet as in front. Angulation of the forequarters and hindquarters should be balanced.\
Irish Setter|Fun Fact|The Irish Setter is believed to have developed from an English Setter-Spaniel-Pointer-Gordon Setter mix.\
Irish Setter|Health|Irish Setters are generally a healthy breed.\
Irish Setter|Grooming|The breed's coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush, trimming and the occasional bath.\
Irish Setter|General Appearance|The Irish Setter is an active, aristocratic bird dog, rich red in color, substantial yet elegant in build. Standing over two feet tall at the shoulder, the dog has a straight, fine, glossy coat, longer on ears, chest, tail and back of legs. Afield, the Irish Setter is a swift-moving hunter; at home, a sweet natured, trainable companion.\
Irish Setter|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Irish Setters is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Irish Setter|Exercise|The Irish Setter is an athlete and as such requires regular exercise.\
Irish Setter|History|1878 - The Irish Setter was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Body|Theneckis in balance with the body and head, medium in length, muscular and slightly arched. Skin on the neck and body is tight fitting, there is no dewlap. The shoulders are strong and muscular.Thetoplineis straight, well muscled and solid, falling into a slightly rounded, well muscled croup, which is moderate in length. The chest is deep, moderately broad, and well muscled. The depth of the chest is slightly less than half the height at the shoulders and sets at the elbow when seen from the side. The forechest is well developed. The ribs are moderately sprung and carried well back. The underline is graceful with a moderate tuck-up. The loin is tight, well muscled and straight or slightly arched.Thetailis set just below the level of the croup. The tail is thick at its base then tapers and carries a dense coat. The preferred tail is docked by one-quarter of its length; natural tails will not be penalized. A natural tail reaches down to the hock joint and is carried straight or slightly saber-like. When moving, the tail is carried near the horizontal, not curled over the back or carried between the legs.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Forequarters|The forequarters are well muscled with strong, sufficient bone and balance. From the front, legs are straight, from the side they are placed well under the body. Shoulders are well laid back, showing fluidity when moving. The upper arm is well muscled, about equal to the shoulder in length and well angulated at its attachment to the shoulder, in order to allow for good extension. The elbows lie close to the body; pasterns are short, sinewy and only very slightly sloping. Preferably, dewclaws are removed from the front legs to avoid injury in the field, but a dog with natural dewclaws is not to be penalized. The feet are cat-like, but slightly oval and always parallel. Pads are thick and tough; nails are self colored and short.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Head|The Wirehaired Vizsla'sheadis in proportion to the body, moderate and well muscled.Theexpressionshould be lively, clever, and is enhanced by the eyebrows and beard.Eyesare slightly oval, of medium size with well fitting eyelids, giving the Wirehaired Vizsla an intelligent and lively expression. Iris color is as dark as possible and blends harmoniously with the coat color. Yellow eyes are a serious fault. Eye rim color should blend with the coat color, but freckles from sun or age are not to be faulted. Lower eye rims should neither turn in nor out.Earsare set at a medium height, moderate in length, hanging close to the cheeks and ending in a rounded V shape.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Coat|The Wirehaired Vizsla's coat makes this breed unique. Close lying, a length of approximately 1 inch, the dense wiry coat should not hide the outline of the body. Functionally the coat should protect against weather and injury with a dense undercoat and wiry outer coat. The lower legs and underside of the chest and belly are covered with shorter, softer, thinner coat. Coat on the head and ears is close fitting and shorter. Pronounced eyebrows highlight the stop. Expression is enhanced not only by eyebrows, but also by a strong, harsh beard, approximately 1 inch in length, formed from both sides of the muzzle. On both sides of the neck the coat forms V shaped brushes. Lacking undercoat or coat brushes on the back of the front legs should be penalized, as is any deviation in coat texture or excessive length of the coat. The Wirehaired Vizsla should be exhibited almost in his natural state, nothing more in the way of stripping being needed than a tidying up. A clipped coat is faulty.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are straight and parallel with well developed thighs when viewed from\'a0behind. The angulation of the hindquarters is in balance with the forequarters. The legs have strong, sufficient bone and balance, with thighs that are well muscled and long. The stifle is well angulated. The hocks are strong, well let down, short and straight as viewed from behind. Rear dewclaws are a disqualification. Feet are as in the Forequarters section.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Fun Fact|The idea for a Wirehaired Vizsla breed came from Hungarian hunters and falconers who wanted a dog able to withstand hunting in the harsh winter conditions of northern Hungary.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Health|Wirehaired Viszlas are generally a healthy breed.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|General Appearance|The Wirehaired Vizsla is a distinguished, versatile hunting dog of medium size, bred for substance and a dense wire coat. Balanced in size and proportion, the Wirehaired Vizsla is robust and lean. Movement is powerful yet graceful with far reaching drive enabling the breed to hunt in all elements and cover any terrain encountered by the walking hunter. The breed possesses an excellent nose for hunting and tracking feather and fur on land and in water, as well as a natural point and retrieve. The breed's most distinguishing features are its weather resistant dense wire coat and its facial furnishings, specifically its beard and eyebrows. Natural appearance is essential to breed type, therefore the Wirehaired Vizsla is to be shown with limited stripping and should not be penalized for being shown in working condition: sinewy, well muscled, with honorable scars.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Wirehaired Viszlas is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|Exercise|Very Active; An energetic worker built for long days in the field; they enjoy hunting, swimming, and upbeat play.\
Wirehaired Vizsla|History|2014 - The Wirehaired Vizsla was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Skye Terrier|Body|Neck -Long and gracefully arched, carried high and proudly.Thebacklineis level.Bodypre-eminently long and low, the chest deep, with oval-shaped ribs. The sides appear flattish due to the straight falling and profuse coat.\'a0Though not to be preferred, the tail is sometimes carried high when the dog is excited or angry. When such carriage arises from emotion only, it is permissible. But the tail should not be constantly carried above the level of the back or hang limp.\
Skye Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders well laid back, with tight placement of shoulder blades at the withers and elbows should fit closely to the sides and be neither loose nor tied. Forearm should curve slightly around the chest. Legs short, muscular and straight as possible. "Straight as possible" means straight as soundness and chest will permit, it does not mean "Terrier straight."\'a0Feet - \'a0Large hare-feet preferably pointing forward, the pads thick and nails strong and preferably black.\
Skye Terrier|Head|Long and powerful, strength being deemed more important than extreme length.Eyesbrown, preferably dark brown, medium in size, close-set and alight with life and intelligence.Earssymmetrical and gracefully feathered. They may be carried prick or drop. If prick, they are medium in size, placed high on the skull, erect at their outer edges, and slightly wider apart at the peak than at the skull. Drop ears, somewhat larger in size and set lower, hang flat against the skull. Powerful and\'a0absolutely true jaws. The nose is always black. A Dudley, flesh-colored or brown nose shall disqualify. Mouth with the incisor teeth closing level, or with upper teeth slightly overlapping the lower.\
Skye Terrier|Coat|Double. Undercoat short, close, soft and woolly. Outer coat hard, straight and flat. 5\'bd inches long without extra credit granted for greater length. The body coat hangs straight down each side, parting from head to tail. The head hair, which may be shorter, veils forehead and eyes and forms a moderate beard and apron. The long feathering on the ears falls straight down from the tips and outer edges, surrounding the ears like a fringe and outlining their shape. The ends of the hair should mingle with the coat of the neck. Tail well feathered.\
Skye Terrier|Hindquarters|Strong, full, well developed and well angulated. Legs short, muscular and straight when viewed from behind. Feet as in front.\
Skye Terrier|Fun Fact|Skyes were bred by farmers as working terriers whose function was to destroy fox, badger and otter.\
Skye Terrier|Health|Skye Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Skye Terrier|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Skye Terrier|General Appearance|The Skye Terrier is a dog of style, elegance and dignity: agile and strong with sturdy bone and hard muscle. Long, low and level-he is twice as long as he is high-he is covered with a profuse coat that falls straight down either side of the body over oval-shaped ribs. The hair well feathered on the head veils forehead and eyes to serve as protection from brush and briar as well as amid serious encounters with other animals. He stands with head high and long tail hanging and moves with a seemingly effortless gait. He is strong in body, quarter and jaw.\
Skye Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Skyes is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Skye Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Not a particularly hyper terrier, Skyes do well with long walks and vigorous play.\
Skye Terrier|History|1887 - The Skye was first registered with the AKC.\
Standard Schnauzer|Body|Bodycompact, strong, short-coupled and substantial so as to permit great flexibility and agility.\'a0Faults - Too slender or shelly; too bulky or coarse. Chest\'a0of medium width with well sprung ribs, and if it could be seen in cross section would be oval. The breastbone is plainly discernible. The brisket must descend at least to the elbows and ascend gradually to the rear with the belly moderately drawn up.\
Standard Schnauzer|Forequarters|Shoulders -The sloping shoulder blades are strongly muscled, yet flat and well laid back so that the rounded upper ends are in a nearly vertical line above the elbows. They slope well forward to the point where they join the upper arm, forming as nearly as possible a right angle when seen from the side. Such an angulation permits the maximum forward extension of the forelegs without binding or effort. Forelegs\'a0straight, vertical, and without any curvature when seen from all sides; set moderately far apart; with heavy bone; elbows set close to the body and pointing directly to the rear. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0small and compact, round with thick pads and strong black nails. The toes are well closed and arched (cat's paws) and pointing straight ahead.\
Standard Schnauzer|Head|Headstrong, rectangular, and elongated; narrowing slightly from the ears to the eyes and again to the tip of the nose. The total length of the head is about one half the length of the back measured from the withers to the set-on of the tail. The head matches the sex and substance of the dog.Expressionalert, highly intelligent, spirited.Eyesmedium size; dark brown; oval in shape and turned forward; neither round nor protruding. The brow is arched and wiry, but vision is not impaired nor eyes hidden by too long an eyebrow.\
Standard Schnauzer|Coat|Tight, hard, wiry and as thick as possible, composed of a soft, close undercoat and a harsh outer coat which, when seen against the grain, stands up off the back, lying neither smooth nor flat. The outer coat (body coat) is trimmed (by plucking) only to accent the body outline.As coat texture is of the greatest importance, a dog may be considered in show coat with back hair measuring from 3/4 to 2 inches in length. Coat on the ears, head, neck, chest, belly and under the tail may be closely trimmed to give the desired typical appearance of the breed. On the muzzle and over the eyes the coat lengthens to form the beard and eyebrows; the hair on the legs is longer than that on the body. These "furnishings" should be of harsh texture and should not be so profuse as to detract from the neat appearance or working capabilities of the dog.\
Standard Schnauzer|Hindquarters|Strongly muscled, in balance with the forequarters, never appearing higher than the shoulders. Thighs broad with well bent stifles. The second thigh, from knee to hock, is approximately parallel with an extension of the upper neck line. The legs, from the clearly defined hock joint to the feet, are short and perpendicular to the ground and, when viewed from the rear, are parallel to each other. Dewclaws, if any, on the hind legs are generally removed. Feet as in front.\
Standard Schnauzer|Fun Fact|Of the three Schnauzers, the Standard is the prototype, a German breed that first appeared during the Middle Ages.\
Standard Schnauzer|Health|Standard Schnauzers are generally a healthy breed.\
Standard Schnauzer|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Standard Schnauzer|General Appearance|The Standard Schnauzer is a robust, heavy-set dog, sturdily built with good muscle and plenty of bone; square-built in proportion of body length to height. His rugged build and dense harsh coat are accentuated by the hallmark of the breed, the arched eyebrows and the bristly mustache and whiskers.\
Standard Schnauzer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Standard Schnauzers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Standard Schnauzer|Exercise|Very Active; Off-leash romping and dog-and-owner playtime keep them physically and mentally fit.\
Standard Schnauzer|History|1904 - The Standard Schnauzer was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Rottweiler|Body|Body- The chest is roomy, broad and deep, reaching to elbow, with well pronounced forechest and well sprung, oval ribs. Back is straight and strong. Loin is short, deep and well muscled. Croup is broad, of medium length and only slightly sloping. Underline of a mature Rottweiler has a slight tuck-up. Males must have two normal testicles properly descended into the scrotum.\'a0Disqualification-Unilateral cryptorchid or cryptorchid males.\
Rottweiler|Forequarters|Shoulder blade is long and well laid back. Upper arm equal in length to shoulder blade, set so elbows are well under body. Distance from withers to elbow and elbow to ground is equal. Legs are strongly developed with straight, heavy bone, not set close together. Pasterns are strong, springy and almost perpendicular to the ground. Feet are round, compact with well arched toes, turning neither in nor out. Pads are thick and hard. Nails short, strong and black. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Rottweiler|Head|Of medium length, broad between the ears; forehead line seen in profile is moderately arched; zygomatic arch and stop well developed with strong broad upper and lower jaws. The desired ratio of backskull to muzzle is 3 to 2. Forehead is preferred dry, however some wrinkling may occur when dog is alert.Expressionis noble, alert, and self-assured.\
Rottweiler|Coat|Outer coat is straight, coarse, dense, of medium length and lying flat. Undercoat should be present on neck and thighs, but the amount is influenced by climatic conditions. Undercoat should not show through outer coat. The coat is shortest on head, ears and legs, longest on breeching. The Rottweiler is to be exhibited in the natural condition with no trimming.\
Rottweiler|Hindquarters|Angulation of hindquarters balances that of forequarters. Upper thigh is fairly long, very broad and well muscled. Stifle joint is well turned. Lower thigh is long, broad and powerful, with extensive muscling leading into a strong hock joint. Rear pasterns are nearly perpendicular to the ground. Viewed from the rear, hind legs are straight, strong and wide enough apart to fit with a properly built body. Feet are somewhat longer than the front feet, turning neither in nor out, equally compact with well arched toes. Pads are thick and hard. Nails short, strong, and black. Dewclaws must be removed.\
Rottweiler|Fun Fact|The Rottweiler is one of the descendents of Roman drover dogs.\
Rottweiler|Health|Rottweilers are generally a healthy breed.\
Rottweiler|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Rottweiler|General Appearance|The ideal Rottweiler is a medium large, robust and powerful dog, black with clearly defined rust markings. His compact and substantial build denotes great strength, agility and endurance. Dogs are characteristically more massive throughout with larger frame and heavier bone than bitches. Bitches are distinctly feminine, but without weakness of substance or structure.\
Rottweiler|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Rottweilers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Rottweiler|Exercise|The Rottie needs at least two solid workouts daily; he would really appreciate it if these always included you!\
Rottweiler|History|1931 - The Rottweiler was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Small Munsterlander Pointer|Fun Fact|The Small Musterlander Pointer has been assigned the Sporting Group designation.\
German Shepherd Dog|Body|Theneckis strong and muscular, clean-cut and relatively long, proportionate in size to the head and without loose folds of skin. When the dog is at attention or excited, the head is raised and the neck carried high; otherwise typical carriage of the head is forward rather than up and but little higher than the top of the shoulders, particularly in motion.Topline- The withers are higher than and sloping into the level back. The back is straight, very strongly developed without sag or roach, and relatively short. The whole structure of the body gives an impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness.\
German Shepherd Dog|Forequarters|The shoulder blades are long and obliquely angled, laid on flat and not placed forward. The upper arm joins the shoulder blade at about a right angle. Both the upper arm and the shoulder blade are well muscled. The forelegs, viewed from all sides, are straight and the bone oval rather than round.\
German Shepherd Dog|Head|Theheadis noble, cleanly chiseled, strong without coarseness, but above all not fine, and in proportion to the body. The head of the male is distinctly masculine, and that of the bitch distinctly feminine. Theexpressionkeen, intelligent and composed.Eyesof medium size, almond shaped, set a little obliquely and not protruding. The color is as dark as possible.Earsare moderately pointed, in proportion to the skull, open toward the front, and carried erect when at attention, the ideal carriage being one in which the center lines of the ears, viewed from the front, are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the ground.\
German Shepherd Dog|Coat|The ideal dog has a double coat of medium length. The outer coat should be as dense as possible, hair straight, harsh and lying close to the body. A slightly wavy outer coat, often of wiry texture, is permissible. The head, including the inner ear and foreface, and the legs and paws are covered with short hair, and the neck with longer and thicker hair. The rear of the forelegs and hind legs has somewhat longer hair extending to the pastern and hock, respectively.\
German Shepherd Dog|Hindquarters|The whole assembly of the thigh, viewed from the side, is broad, with both upper and lower thigh well muscled, forming as nearly as possible a right angle. The upper thigh bone parallels the shoulder blade while the lower thigh bone parallels the upper arm. The metatarsus (the unit between the hock joint and the foot) is short, strong and tightly articulated.\
German Shepherd Dog|Fun Fact|The German Shepherd Dog is one of the most popular and recognizable breeds of the AKC.\
German Shepherd Dog|Health|German Shepherd Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
German Shepherd Dog|Grooming|The breed's thick double short coat requires regular weekly grooming with a pin brush and slicker brush.\
German Shepherd Dog|General Appearance|The first impression of a good German Shepherd Dog is that of a strong, agile, well muscled animal, alert and full of life. It is well balanced, with harmonious development of the forequarter and hindquarter. The dog is longer than tall, deep-bodied, and presents an outline of smooth curves rather than angles. It looks substantial and not spindly, giving the impression, both at rest and in motion, of muscular fitness and nimbleness without any look of clumsiness or soft living. The ideal dog is stamped with a look of quality and nobility - difficult to define, but unmistakable when present. Secondary sex characteristics are strongly marked, and every animal gives a definite impression of masculinity or femininity, according to its sex.\
German Shepherd Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the German Shepherd Dog is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
German Shepherd Dog|Exercise|Very Active; These big guys were born to work; they require regular mental and physical exercise.\
German Shepherd Dog|History|1908 - The German Shepherd Dog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Body|Theneckis of proper length to permit the jaws reaching game to be retrieved, sloping downwards on beautifully curving lines. The nape is rather muscular, becoming gradually larger toward the shoulders. Moderate throatiness is permitted. Theskinis close and tight. Thechestin general gives the impression of depth rather than breadth; for all that, it is in correct proportion to the other parts of the body. The chest reaches down to the elbows, the ribs forming the thorax show a rib spring and are not flat or slabsided; they are not perfectly round or barrel-shaped. The back ribs reach well down. The circumference of the thorax immediately behind the elbows is smaller than that of the thorax about a hand's breadth behind elbows, so that the upper arm has room for movement.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Forequarters|Theshouldersare sloping, movable, and well covered with muscle. The shoulder blades lie flat and are well laid back nearing a 45 degree angle. The upper arm (the bones between the shoulder and elbow joint) is as long as possible, standing away somewhat from the trunk so that the straight and closely muscled legs, when viewed from the front, appear to be parallel. Elbows which stand away from the body or are too close result in toes turning inwards or outwards and must be faulted.Pasternsare strong, short and nearly vertical with a slight spring. Loose, short-bladed or straight shoulders must be faulted. Knuckling over is to be faulted. Dewclaws on the forelegs may be removed. Thefeetare compact, close-knit and round to spoon-shaped. The toes are sufficiently arched and heavily nailed. The pads are strong, hard and thick.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Head|Theheadis clean-cut, is neither too light nor too heavy, and is in proper proportion to the body. Theeyesare of medium size, full of intelligence and expression, good-humored and yet radiating energy, neither protruding nor sunken. The eye is almond shaped, not circular. The preferred color is dark brown. Light yellow eyes are not desirable and are a fault. Closely set eyes are to be faulted. China or wall eyes are to be disqualified. Theearsare broad and set fairly high, lie flat and never hang away from the head. Their placement is just above eye level. The ears when laid in front without being pulled, should extend to the corner of the mouth. In the case of heavier dogs, the ears are correspondingly longer. Ears too long or fleshy are to be faulted.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Coat|The hair is short and thick and feels tough to the hand; it is somewhat longer on the underside of the tail and the back edges of the haunches. The hair is softer, thinner and shorter on the ears and the head. Any dog with long hair in the body coat is to be severely penalized.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Hindquarters|Thighs are strong and well muscled. Stifles are well bent. Hock joints are well angulated and strong with straight bone structure from hock to pad. Angulation of both stifle and hock joint is such as to achieve the optimal balance of drive and traction. Hocks turn neither in nor out. Cowhocked legs are a serious fault.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Fun Fact|German Shorthaired Pointers are versatile hunters and all-purpose gun dogs.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Health|German Shorthaired Pointers are generally a healthy breed.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Grooming|This breed does have short coat but is also a heavy shedder.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|General Appearance|The German Shorthaired Pointer is a versatile hunter, an all-purpose gun dog capable of high performance in field and water. The judgment of Shorthairs in the show ring reflects this basic characteristic. The overall picture which is created in the observer's eye is that of an aristocratic, well balanced, symmetrical animal with conformation indicating power, endurance and agility and a look of intelligence and animation. The dog is neither unduly small nor conspicuously large. It gives the impression of medium size, but is like the proper hunter, "with a short back, but standing over plenty of ground." Symmetry and field quality are most essential.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the German Shorthaired Pointer is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|Exercise|Very Active; Like most pointing breeds, GSPs thrive on running and exercise.\
German Shorthaired Pointer|History|1930 - The German Shorthaired Pointer was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Perro de Presa Canario|Fun Fact|\
Black Russian Terrier|Health|Black Russian Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Black Russian Terrier|Fun Fact|The Black Russian Terrier is AKC's 151st breed.\
Black Russian Terrier|Grooming|Grooming a Black Russian Terrier will require regular brushing to keep his double coat from matting.\
Black Russian Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Black Russian Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Black Russian Terrier|Exercise|A well-bred and socialized Black Russian Terrier is loving toward his family yet reserved around strangers.\
Black Russian Terrier|History|2004 - The Black Russian Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Afghan Hound|Body|Neck:Theneckis of good length, strong and arched, running in a curve to the shoulders which are long and sloping and well laid back. Faults-Neck too short or too thick; a ewe neck; a goose neck; a neck lacking in substance.Body:The back line appearing practically level from the shoulders to the loin. Strong and powerful loin and slightly arched, falling away toward the stern, with the hipbones very pronounced; well ribbed and tucked up in flanks. The height at the shoulders equals the distance from the chest to the buttocks; the brisket well let down, and of medium width. Faults-Roach back, swayback, goose rump, slack loin; lack of prominence of hipbones; too much width of brisket, causing interference with elbows.\
Afghan Hound|Head|Theheadis of good length, showing much refinement, theskullevenly balanced with the foreface. There is a slight prominence of the nasal bone structure causing a slightly Roman appearance, the center line running up over the foreface with little or no stop, falling away in front of the eyes so there is an absolutely clear outlook with no interference; the underjaw showing great strength, the jaws long and punishing; the mouth level, meaning that the teeth from the upper jaw and lower jaw match evenly, neither overshot nor undershot. This is a difficult mouth to breed. A scissorsbiteis even more punishing and can be more easily bred into a dog than a level mouth, and a dog having a scissors bite, where the lower teeth slip inside and rest against the teeth of the upper jaw, should not be penalized. The occipital bone is very prominent. The head is surmounted by a topknot of long silky hair.Ears-The ears are long, set approximately on level with outer corners of the eyes, the leather of the ear reaching nearly to the end of the dog's nose, and covered with long silky hair.Eyes-The eyes are almond-shaped (almost triangular), never full or bulgy, and are dark in color. Nose-Nose is of good size, black in color. Faults-Coarseness; snipiness; overshot or undershot; eyes round or bulgy or light in color; exaggerated Roman nose; head not surmounted with topknot.\
Afghan Hound|Coat|Hindquarters, flanks, ribs, forequarters, and legs well covered with thick, silky hair, very fine in texture; ears and all four feet well feathered; from in front of the shoulders; and also backwards from the shoulders along the saddle from the flanks and the ribs upwards, the hair is short and close, forming a smooth back in mature dogs - this is a traditional characteristic of the Afghan Hound. The Afghan Hound should be shown in its natural state; the coat is not clipped or trimmed; the head is surmounted (in the full sense of the word) with a topknot of long, silky hair - that is also an outstanding characteristic of the Afghan Hound. Showing of short hair on cuffs on either front or back legs is permissible. Fault-Lack of shorthaired saddle in mature dogs.\
Afghan Hound|Health|Seek a veterinarian who is familiar with sighthounds and their specific needs such as sensitivities with anesthesia.\
Afghan Hound|Fun Fact|The long, fine coat of the Afghan is a sort found among animals native to high altitudes.\
Afghan Hound|Grooming|This magnificent coat will require frequent baths and thorough grooming.\
Afghan Hound|General Appearance|The Afghan Hound is an aristocrat, his whole appearance one of dignity and aloofness with no trace of plainness or coarseness. He has a straight front, proudly carried head, eyes gazing into the distance as if in memory of ages past. The striking characteristics of the breed-exotic, or "Eastern,"expression, long silky topknot, peculiar coat pattern, very prominent hipbones, large feet, and the impression of a somewhat exaggerated bend in the stifle due to profuse trouserings-stand out clearly, giving the Afghan Hound the appearance of what he is, a king of dogs, that has held true to tradition throughout the ages.\
Afghan Hound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Afghan Hounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Afghan Hound|Exercise|Afghan Hounds require a great deal of exercise.\
Afghan Hound|History|1926 - The Afghan Hound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Xoloitzcuintli|Body|Neckis long, elegant, slightly arched, blending smoothly into the shoulders. In dogs less than one year of age, wrinkled skin may be present. In adults, the skin on the neck is smooth and dry, without wrinkles.Toplineis level with slight arch over loin.Bodyis well developed. The brisket should reach to point of elbow. The ribcage is deep and oval, of good length, with sufficient ribspring to produce a rounded shape, but never barrel shaped. The loin is muscular, with a smooth underline showing a slight tuck up. Back is level and firm. Croup is well muscled, slightly rounded, and broad. It should not be flat or steeply angled.Tailis set low, continuing smoothly off the angle of the croup, long and fine, reaching to the hock. When the dog is moving, the tail is carried in a graceful curve, but not over the back. It is held down in a relaxed position when the dog is at rest. A short or curled tail is a serious fault.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Forequarters|Shoulders are covered with smooth muscle, long and sloping. Shoulder blades are flat and well laid back. Upper Arm (humerus) is equal or slightly longer than scapula, angled to place the forelegs well under the body. Elbows are firm and tight, allowing for reach but not so loose to as to allow for elbowing out, nor so tight as to create toeing in or out. Legs are long, straight, and parallel, when viewed from all sides, set well under the body to allow a long stride. Pasterns are flexible, strong and straight, turning neither in nor out. Feet are harefeet, webbed, with well-arched toes. Thin soft pads, splayed feet or rounded feet are a serious fault. Toenails are to be dark on dark colored dogs, light on light colored dogs. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Head|Expression- Thoughtful and intelligent, vivacious, conveying the noble and faithful character of the breed, will show distinctive brow wrinkles when at attention.Eyesare almond shaped, medium size, neither sunken nor protruding. The color varies from yellow to black, the darker being preferred, but lighter color is acceptable. Both eyes must be of the same color. The eye rims may be less pigmented on light colored dogs. Light or spotted eye rims are tolerated but not preferred.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Coat|The principal characteristic of the hairless variety is the absence of hair, however a small amount of short, coarse hair is permitted on the top of the head, the feet, and the last third of the tail to the tip. The absence of hair in those areas is not to be penalized. Hair on any other areas is a serious fault. Hair may be any color. The skin is tough, protective, smooth and close fitting. Moderate head wrinkles are permitted but loose or wrinkled skin on the body is a fault. The coated variety is completely covered with a short, smooth, close fitting coat. Long, soft or wavy hair is a serious fault in either variety.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Hindquarters|The Xolo possesses moderate rear angulation, in balance with the forequarters. The bones of the first and second thigh are approximately equal in length, and the combined angle should place the front edge of the back paw directly under the rearmost point of the pelvis with the hock perpendicular. Legs are straight and well muscled. Stifle is moderately bent. Hocks are short, sturdy and straight, turning neither in nor out. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet are the same as the front feet.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Fun Fact|The word Xoloitzcuintli is derived from the name of the Aztec god Xolotl and the Aztec word for dog, itzcuintli\
Xoloitzcuintli|Health|Xoloitzciuntli are generally a healthy breed.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Grooming|Coated Xolos have an easy-care short coat, requiring only occasional brushing.\
Xoloitzcuintli|General Appearance|The Xolo is an ancient, natural breed, molded by evolution rather than selective breeding. A Xolo is moderate in all aspects of type and conformation, never extreme or overdone. Today the breed serves as a guard and companion. The Xolo possesses a clean, graceful outline, equally combining elegance and strength. There are two varieties, hairless and coated, identical except for coat and dentition. In the hairless variety, the principal characteristic is the total or almost total absence of hair. The coated variety is covered by a short, flat coat. In conformation, all three sizes are lean, sturdy, well muscled with a spacious\'a0rib-cage, and moderate\'a0bone. The Xolo outline is rectangular, and the distance from the elbow to ground is equal to, or slightly greater than, the distance from the withers to the elbow. Typical Xolo temperament is calm, tranquil, aloof and attentive.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Xoloitzciuntli is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Xoloitzcuintli|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Xolos like long walks and upbeat play but are famously tranquil around the house.\
Xoloitzcuintli|History|2010 - The Xoloitzcuintli was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Boerboel|Body|Theneckis powerful, of medium length, and forms a muscular arch. It flows smoothly into the sloping shoulders, gradually increasing in width from the head to the shoulders. (In the female the muscles are less accentuated but should remain in balance with the head and body). The dewlap is noticeable but disappears towards the sternum.Thetoplineis firm and level, extending in a straight line from behind the withers to the croup. The back remains horizontal to the ground while the dog is moving or standing. The under line of a mature dog has a slight tuck-up.Thebodyis blocky, muscular and solid, with good depth and width. The back is broad and straight, with pronounced muscles. The ribcage is well sprung and well filled behind the shoulder blades. The transitions between the chest, loin and rump are well filled and flowing. The loin is strong and muscular, and only slightly narrower than the ribcage and rump. The croup is broad, flat and strong, with well defined musculature. Its height should not exceed the height at the shoulders.\
Boerboel|Forequarters|The forelegs are strong boned, with well-defined muscles. Viewed from the side the forearm should be vertical from the elbow to the pastern. When viewed from the front they should be parallel to each other, not bowed or with toes turning inward. Elbows should be held close to the body. Length of the foreleg to the elbow is approximately 50 percent of the dog's height at the shoulder. The chest is broad, deep and wide with well-sprung ribs and strong developed pectoral muscles. The shoulders are moderately sloping, powerful and muscular, with no tendency to looseness. The shoulder blade is long with moderate angulation. The upper arm is equal in both length and angulation to the shoulder blade. The pastern is short, thick and strong and with a slight slope when viewed from the side. The front feet point straight forward, are large, round, strongly boned and compact. The toes are well arched, with short, preferably black toenails and protected by hair in between. Front dewclaws may be removed. The pads are thick, tough and black.\
Boerboel|Head|Theheadis an impressive and a distinctive feature of the Boerboel. It should be blocky, broad, deep, square and muscular, with well filled cheeks and in proportion to the body. Moderate wrinkling is observed over the forehead when the dog shows interest.\
Boerboel|Coat|The coat is short, dense, smooth and shiny. The skin is thick and loose but fits smoothly. Skin is well pigmented.\
Boerboel|Hindquarters|The hindquarter is sturdy and muscular. The hind legs are strong boned. The stifle should be sound, strong and moderately angulated and in balance with the forequarters, to support the powerful propulsion from the hindquarters during movement. The upper thighs are broad, deep and muscular as seen from the side and the rear. The lower thighs have well defined muscles and show substance down to the hocks. The metatarsus is broad, relatively short and perfectly upright. The hind feet point straight forward and are slightly larger than the front feet. Rear dewclaws, if any, are generally removed.\
Boerboel|Fun Fact|Boerboels are a dominant breed. New owners should have experience with large breeds prior to owning a Boerboel.\
Boerboel|Health|Boerbols are generally a healthy breed.\
Boerboel|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Boerboel|General Appearance|Historically the Boerboel developed as a general farm dog for the pioneers who settled in South Africa since the seventeenth century. These dogs were often the first line of defense against predators and were valuable in tracking and holding down wounded game. Old farmers told many a tale of the strength, agility and courage of the Boerboel. The dangers and harsh conditions of southern Africa allowed only the fittest to survive. The protective character of the Boerboel is today still evident and is much sought after, as is the calm, stable and confident composure of the breed. The origin and purpose of the Boerboel should be understood in order to preserve the unique identity and qualities of the breed as a South African developed mastiff. Type, conformation, functional efficiency and mentality are equally important in the evaluation of the Boerboel as a whole. The Boerboel is a large dog that is strong, confident and muscular in appearance with powerful, free-flowing movement. When observing a Boerboel at play or work, standing or moving, it should show strength, suppleness, nimbleness and agility.\
Boerboel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the  Boerbol is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Boerboel|Exercise|The Boerbol needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Boerboel|History|2015 - The Boerboel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Harrier|Body|Theneckis long and strong with no excess skin or throatiness, sweeping smoothly into the muscling of the forequarters. Thetoplineis level. Back muscular with no dip behind the withers or roach over the loin.Body-Chest deep, extending to the elbows, with well sprung ribs that extend well back, providing plenty of heart and lung room. The ribs should not be so well sprung that they interfere with the free, efficient movement of the front assembly. The loin is short, wide and well muscled.\
Harrier|Forequarters|Moderate angulation, with long shoulders sloping into the muscles of the back, clean at the withers. The shoulders are well clothed with muscle without being excessively heavy or loaded, giving the impression of free, strong action. Elbows are set well away from the ribs, running parallel with the body and not turning outwards. Good straight legs with plenty of bone running well down to the toes, but not overburdened, inclined to knuckle over very slightly but not exaggerated in the slightest degree. Feet are round and catlike, with toes set close together turning slightly inwards. The pads are thick, well developed and strong.\
Harrier|Head|Theheadis in proportion to the overall dog. No part of the head should stand out relative to the other parts. Theexpressionis gentle when relaxed, sensible yet alert when aroused.Eyesare medium size, set well apart, brown or hazel color in darker dogs, lighter hazel to yellow in lighter dogs, though darker colors are always desired.Earsare set on low and lie close to the cheeks, rounded at the tips.\
Harrier|Coat|Short, dense, hard and glossy. Coat texture on the ears is finer than on the body. There is a brush of hair on the underside of the tail.\
Harrier|Hindquarters|Angulation in balance with the front assembly, so that rear drive is in harmony with front reach. Well developed muscles, providing strength for long hours of work, are important. Endurance is more important than pure speed, and as such, the stifles are only moderately angulated. Feet point straight ahead, are round and catlike with toes set close together, and thick, well developed pads.Coat:Short, dense, hard and glossy. Coat texture on the ears is finer than on the body. There is a brush of hair on the underside of the tail.\
Harrier|Fun Fact|Harrier supposedly derives from the Norman harier, denoting Saxon raches, or hounds.\
Harrier|Health|Harriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Harrier|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Harrier|General Appearance|Developed in England to hunt hare in packs, Harriers must have all the attributes of a scenting pack hound. They are very sturdily built with large bone for their size. They must be active, well balanced, full of strength and quality, in all ways appearing able to work tirelessly, no matter the terrain, for long periods. Running gear and scenting ability are particularly important features. The Harrier should, in fact, be a smaller version of the English Foxhound.\
Harrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Harriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Harrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Harriers are world-class runners and sniffers, but easygoing enough to settle down.\
Harrier|History|1885 - The Harrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Hokkaido|Fun Fact|The Hokkaido has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since January 2016.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Body|Neck- Moderately long and muscular with no loose skin. The neck is slightly arched and the head is carried high.Body- rectangular and strong. The length is in proportion to the height and in harmony with general appearance. Back - level, muscular and strong. Loins - broad and muscular. Croup - moderately short and broad, very slightly sloping and well-muscled. Chest - long, deep and well-sprung. Belly - Slight tuck up.Tail- high set, curled over and touching the back.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Forequarters|When seen from the front the forelegs are straight, parallel and strong. Angulation - Shoulders are well laid back, oblique and muscular. Dewclaws - Required and may be double. Forefeet - slightly oval, toes well-arched and tight with well-developed pads. Faults - No dewclaws.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Head|Strongly built with close fitting skin. Triangular when seen from above or the side.Skull- Slightly longer than muzzle and somewhat domed. Stop - clearly defined though neither steep nor high. Nose - Black. Dark brown in chocolate brown and some cream dogs. Cheeks - Flat.Eyes- Medium size and almond shaped. Dark brown. Slightly lighter in chocolate brown and some cream dogs. Eye rims are black. Dark brown in chocolate brown and some cream dogs.Ears- Erect and of medium size. Triangular with firm edges and slightly rounded tips. Very mobile, reacting sensitively to sounds and showing the dog's mood. Faults - yellow or round protruding eyes.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Coat|Double coat, thick and weatherproof. There are two types:Short-haired- The outer coat of medium length, fairly coarse, with a thick, soft undercoat. The tail is bushy and the hair length is in proportion to the coat.Long-haired- The outer coat is longer than the above, fairly coarse, with a thick, soft undercoat. The tail is very bushy and the hair length is in proportion to the coat. In both lengths, the hair is shorter on the face, top of the head, ears and front of the legs; and longer on the neck, chest and back of the thighs.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Hindquarters|When seen from behind the hind legs are straight, parallel and strong. Thighs - Broad and well-muscled. Dewclaws - Required. Well-developed double dewclaws desirable. Hind feet - Same as forefeet. Faults - No dewclaws.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Fun Fact|The breed came to Iceland with the Vikings. It is known as the "dog of the Vikings."\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Health|Icelandic Sheepdogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Grooming|The breed sheds its undercoat twice a year and needs to be brushed when it does.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|General Appearance|The Icelandic Sheepdog is a Nordic herding Spitz, slightly under medium sized with prick ears and a curled tail. Seen from the side the dog is rectangular. The expression is gentle, intelligent and happy. A confident and lively bearing is typical for this dog. There are two types of coat, long and short, both thick and extremely weatherproof. There is a marked difference in appearance between the sexes.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Icelandic Sheepdogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|Exercise|Very Active; A true herding dog: lively, inquisitive, and athletic.\
Icelandic Sheepdog|History|2010 - The Icelandic Sheepdog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Body|Neckmoderately short, strong and well set on. Level back. Well ribbed with good depth.Tailset high, richly plumed and carried in a gay curl over the back when moving. Should not be penalized for dropping tail when standing.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Forequarters|Shoulders well placed and firm. When viewed from the front, the bones of the forearms are slightly bowed to allow the front feet to fall beneath the shoulders. Moderate bone.Faults- Extremely bowed or straight forearms, as viewed from front.Dewclaws may be removed.Feet- Small, hare foot.Fault- Cat feet.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Head|Small in proportion to body and proudly carried, giving an impression of quality. Masculine in dogs but free from coarseness.Eyesdark brown in color, oval in shape, bright and expressive, of medium size set fairly well apart but forward looking, giving an apelikeexpression.Eye rims black. Faults - Large full eyes; light eyes; mean expression, blue eyes, or eyes with blue marks.Earsmedium size, pendant, well feathered in the adult and set fairly high. They may have a slight lift from the skull, but should not fly. Large, heavy, low set ears are not typical.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Coat|Double coat, silky in texture, smooth on face and front of legs, of moderate length on body, but lying rather flat. Ears and back of forelegs nicely feathered, tail and buttocks well furnished with longer hair. Neck covered with a mane or "shawl" of longer hair which is more pronounced in dogs than bitches. Feathering on toes, often extending beyond the feet. Should not be over-coated and bitches tend to carry less coat and mane than dogs.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Hindquarters|Well made and strong. Stifle well developed, showing moderate angulation. Hocks well let down and straight when viewed from behind. Faults - Straight stifle; cow hocks. Dewclaws may be removed. Feet as in front.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Fun Fact|The ancestors of the Tibetan Spaniel lived in the monasteries with Buddhist monks and were called "little Lions," giving them great value and prestige (lions were sacred).\
Tibetan Spaniel|Health|Tibetan Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Grooming|The breed's long, silky double coat can easily mat and requires regular brushing.\
Tibetan Spaniel|General Appearance|Should be small, active and alert. The outline should give a well balanced appearance, slightly longer in body than the height at withers.Fault- Coarseness of type.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Tibetan Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Tibetan Spaniel|Exercise|Tibbies, though not frantic little yappers, are frisky and curious.\
Tibetan Spaniel|History|1983 - The Tibetan Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Body|The length of the dog, measured from the point of the shoulder to the point of buttock is 10 to 15 percent greater than the height of the dog measured from the highest point of the shoulder to the ground. Depth of the ribcage is equal to half the total height of the dog. Ribs are long and well sprung.\'a0Chest - Broad and deep, well muscled.\'a0Underline and tuckup - The underline of the abdomen is practically horizontal. There is little or no tuckup.\'a0Back - Wide and strong. Highest part of shoulder blade barely rising above the strong, leveltoplineof the back.\'a0Loin - Well-muscled, and harmoniously joined to the back.\'a0Croup - Wide, strong, muscular and slightly sloped. The top of the croup rises slightly and is level with the highest point of the shoulder.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Head|Large in comparison to the body. Differentiated from that of other mastiff breeds by more extensive wrinkling and pendulous lips which blend into an ample dewlap. Toplines of cranium and the muzzle must be parallel. The face is made up of heavy wrinkles and folds. Required folds are those extending from the outside margin of the eyelids to the dewlap, and from under the lower lids to the outer edges of the lips.\'a0Severe Faults -\'a0Toplines of the cranium and muzzle not parallel.\'a0Disqualifications - Absence of wrinkles and folds.Expression- Wistful at rest, intimidating when alert. Penetrating stare.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Coat|The coat is short, dense and of uniform length and smoothness all over the body. The hairs are straight and not longer than 1 inch. No fringe anywhere.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Hindquarters|As a whole, they must be powerful and strong, in harmony with the forequarters.\'a0Thighs - About the same length as the forearms, broad, muscular.\'a0Stifles - Moderate angle, strong.Legs - Heavy and thick boned, well-muscled. Slightly shorter than thigh bones.\'a0Hocks - Powerful and long.\'a0Rear pasterns(metatarsus) -Heavy thick bones. Viewed from the side, they are perpendicular to the ground. Viewed from the rear, parallel to each other.\'a0Rear dewclaws - Any dewclaws must be removed.\'a0Hind feet - Same as the front feet but slightly smaller.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Fun Fact|The Neapolitan Mastiff can weigh over 150 lbs.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Health|Neapolitan Mastiffs are generally healthy.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Grooming|Their short coats are easy to care for, but potential owners should not be afraid of a little drool!\
Neapolitan Mastiff|General Appearance|The Neapolitan Mastiff is a heavy-boned, massive, awe inspiring dog bred for use as a guard and defender of owner and property. He is characterized by loose skin, over his entire body, abundant, hanging wrinkles and folds on the head and a voluminous dewlap. The essence of the Neapolitan is his bestial appearance, astounding head and imposing size and attitude. Due to his massive structure, his characteristic movement is rolling and lumbering, not elegant or showy.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Neapolitan Mastiffs is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|Exercise|Not Very Active; This placid, lumbering dog should be walked a few times a day.\
Neapolitan Mastiff|History|2004 - The Neapolitan Mastiff was officially recognized by the AKC in 2004.\
English Springer Spaniel|Forequarters|Efficient movement in front calls for proper forequarter assembly. The shoulder blades are flat and fairly close together at the tips, molding smoothly into the contour of the body. Ideally, when measured from the top of the withers to the point of the shoulder to the elbow, the shoulder blade and upper arm are of apparent equal length, forming an angle of nearly 90 degrees; this sets the front legs well under the body and places the elbows directly beneath the tips of the shoulder blades. Elbows lie close to the body. Forelegs are straight with the same degree of size continuing to the foot. Bone is strong, slightly flattened, not too round or too heavy. Pasterns are short, strong and slightly sloping, with no suggestion of weakness. Dewclaws are usually removed. Feet are round or slightly oval. They are compact and well-arched, of medium size with thick pads, and well-feathered between the toes.\
English Springer Spaniel|Head|Theheadis impressive without being heavy. Its beauty lies in a combination of strength and refinement. It is important that its size and proportion be in balance with the rest of the dog. Viewed in profile, the head appears approximately the same length as the neck and blends with the body in substance. The stop, eyebrows and chiseling of the bony structure around the eye sockets contribute to the Springer's beautiful and characteristic expression, which is alert, kindly and trusting. Theeyes, more than any other feature, are the essence of the Springer's appeal. Correct size, shape, placement and color influence expression and attractiveness. The eyes are of medium size and oval in shape, set rather well-apart and fairly deep in their sockets. The color of the iris harmonizes with the color of the coat, preferably dark hazel in the liver and white dogs and black or deep brown in the black and white dogs. Eyerims are fully pigmented and match the coat in color. Lids are tight with little or no haw showing. Eyes that are small, round or protruding, as well as eyes that are yellow or brassy in color, are highly undesirable.Earsare long and fairly wide, hanging close to the cheeks with no tendency to stand up or out. The ear leather is thin and approximately long enough to reach the tip of the nose. Correct ear set is on a level with the eye and not too far back on the skull.\
English Springer Spaniel|Coat|The Springer has an outer coat and an undercoat. On the body, the outer coat is of medium length, flat or wavy, and is easily distinguishable from the undercoat, which is short, soft and dense. The quantity of undercoat is affected by climate and season. When in combination, outer coat and undercoat serve to make the dog substantially waterproof, weatherproof and thornproof. On ears, chest, legs and belly the Springer is nicely furnished with a fringe of feathering of moderate length and heaviness. On the head, front of the forelegs, and below the hock joints on the front of the hind legs, the hair is short and fine. The coat has the clean, glossy, "live" appearance indicative of good health. It is legitimate to trim about the head, ears, neck and feet, to remove dead undercoat, and to thin and shorten excess feathering as required to enhance a smart, functional appearance. Th\
English Springer Spaniel|Hindquarters|The Springer should be worked and shown in hard, muscular condition with well-developed hips and thighs. His whole rear assembly suggests strength and driving power. Thighs are broad and muscular. Stifle joints are strong. For functional efficiency, the angulation of the hindquarter is never greater than that of the forequarter, and not appreciably less. The hock joints are somewhat rounded, not small and sharp in contour. Rear pasterns are short (about 1/3 the distance from the hip joint to the foot) and strong, with good bone. When viewed from behind, the rear pasterns are parallel. Dewclaws are usually removed. The feet are the same as in front, except that they are smaller and often more compact.\
English Springer Spaniel|Fun Fact|In 1881 the American Spaniel Club was founded.\
English Springer Spaniel|Health|English Springer Spaniels are generally a healthy breed.\
English Springer Spaniel|Grooming|English Springer Spaniels need regular brushing and trimming to keep their coats neat and free of mats.\
English Springer Spaniel|General Appearance|The English Springer Spaniel is a medium-sized sporting dog, with a compact body and a docked tail. His coat is moderately long, with feathering on his legs, ears, chest and brisket. His pendulous ears, soft gentle expression, sturdy build and friendly wagging tail proclaim him unmistakably a member of the ancient family of Spaniels. He is above all a well-proportioned dog, free from exaggeration, nicely balanced in every part. His carriage is proud and upstanding, body deep, legs strong and muscular, with enough length to carry him with ease. Taken as a whole, the English Springer Spaniel suggests power, endurance and agility. He looks the part of a dog that can go, and keep going, under difficult hunting conditions. At his best, he is endowed with style, symmetry, balance and enthusiasm, and is every inch a sporting dog of distinct spaniel character, combining beauty and utility.\
English Springer Spaniel|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for English Springer Spaniels is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
English Springer Spaniel|Exercise|Very Active; Built for long days as hunters\'92 companions, need regular exercise for optimum mental and physical health.\
English Springer Spaniel|History|1910 - The English Springer Spaniel was officially recognized by the AKC\
Lhasa Apso|Body|The length from point of shoulders to point of buttocks longer than height at withers, well ribbed up, strong loin, well-developed quarters and thighs.\
Lhasa Apso|Head|Heavy head furnishings with good fall over eyes, good whiskers and beard;\'a0skull\'a0narrow, falling away behind the eyes in a marked degree, not quite flat, but not domed or apple-shaped; straight foreface of fair length. Nose black, the length from tip of nose to eye to be roughly about one-third of the total length from nose to back of skull.\
Lhasa Apso|Coat|Heavy, straight, hard, not woolly nor silky, of good length, and very dense.\
Lhasa Apso|Health|Lhasa Apsos are generally a healthy breed.\
Lhasa Apso|Fun Fact|The Lhasa originated in Tibet.\
Lhasa Apso|Grooming|A long-coated breed, they require frequent grooming.\
Lhasa Apso|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Lhasa Apsos is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Lhasa Apso|Exercise|Calm but fun-loving, Lhasas enjoy brisk walks and clowning for loved ones.\
Lhasa Apso|History|1935 - The Lhasa Apso was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bullmastiff|Body|Neck- Slightly arched, of moderate length, very muscular, and almost equal in circumference to the skull.Topline- Straight and level between withers and loin.Body- Compact. Chest wide and deep, with ribs well sprung and well set down between the forelegs. Back-Short, giving the impression of a well balanced dog. Loin-Wide, muscular, and slightly arched, with fair depth of flank.Tail- Set on high, strong at the root, and tapering to the hocks. It may be straight or curved, but never carried hound fashion.\
Bullmastiff|Forequarters|Shoulders - muscular but not loaded, and slightly sloping. Forelegs-straight, well boned, and set well apart; elbows turned neither in nor out. Pasterns straight, feet of medium size, with round toes well arched. Pads thick and tough, nails black.\
Bullmastiff|Head|Expression- Keen, alert, and intelligent.Eyes- Dark and of medium size.Ears- V-shaped and carried close to the cheeks, set on wide and high, level with occiput and cheeks, giving a square appearance to the skull; darker in color than the body and medium in size.Skull- Large, with a fair amount of wrinkle when alert; broad, with cheeks well developed. Forehead flat. Stop-Moderate.Muzzle- Broad and deep; its length, in comparison with that of the entire head, approximately as 1 is to 3. Lack of foreface with nostrils set on top of muzzle is a reversion to the Bulldog and is very undesirable. A dark muzzle is preferable. Nose - Black, with nostrils large and broad. Flews - Not too pendulous.Bite- Preferably level or slightly undershot. Canine teeth large and set wide apart.\
Bullmastiff|Coat|Short and dense, giving good weather protection.\
Bullmastiff|Hindquarters|Broad and muscular, with well developed second thigh denoting power, but not cumbersome. Moderate angulation at hocks. Cowhocks and splay feet are serious faults.\
Bullmastiff|Fun Fact|The known history of the Bullmastiff begins about 1860 in England.\
Bullmastiff|Health|Bullmastiffs are generally a healthy breed.\
Bullmastiff|Grooming|The breed does not require much grooming to keep them tidy.\
Bullmastiff|General Appearance|That of a symmetrical animal, showing great strength, endurance, and alertness; powerfully built but active. The foundation breeding was 60 percent Mastiff and 40 percent Bulldog. The breed was developed in England by gamekeepers for protection against poachers.\
Bullmastiff|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bullmastiffs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bullmastiff|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Calm and low-key, but they do well at lots of different dog sports, like agility.\
Bullmastiff|History|1934 - The Bullmastiff was officially recognized by the AKC\
Papillon|Body|Neckof medium length.Topline-The backline is straight and level.Body-The chest is of medium depth with ribs well sprung. The belly is tucked up.Taillong, set high and carried well arched over the body. The tail is covered with a long, flowing plume. The plume may hang to either side of the body. Faults\'a0- Low-set tail; one not arched over the back, or too short.\
Papillon|Forequarters|Shoulders well developed and laid back to allow freedom of movement. Forelegs slender, fine-boned and must be straight. Removal of dewclaws on forelegs optional. Front feet thin and elongated (hare-like), pointing neither in nor out.\
Papillon|Head|Eyesdark, round, not bulging, of medium size and alert inexpression.The inner corners of the eyes are on line with the stop. Eye rims black.Ears-The ears of either the erect or drop type should be large with rounded tips, and set on the sides and toward the back of the head. (1) Ears of the erect type are carried obliquely and move like the spread wings of a butterfly. When alert, each ear forms an angle of approximately 45 degrees to the head. The leather should be of sufficient strength to maintain the erect position. (2) Ears of the drop type, known as the Phalene, are similar to the erect type, but are carried drooping and must be completely down.\
Papillon|Coat|Abundant, long, fine, silky, flowing, straight with resilient quality, flat on back and sides of body. A profuse frill on chest. There is no undercoat. Hair short and close on skull, muzzle, front of forelegs, and from hind feet to hocks. Ears well fringed, with the inside covered with silken hair of medium length. Backs of the forelegs are covered with feathers diminishing to the pasterns. Hind legs are covered to the hocks with abundant breeches (culottes). Tail is covered with a long, flowing plume. Hair on feet is short, but fine tufts may appear over toes and grow beyond them, forming a point.\
Papillon|Hindquarters|Well developed and well angulated. The hind legs are slender, fine-boned, and parallel when viewed from behind. Hocks inclined neither in nor out. Dewclaws, if any, must be removed from hind legs. Hind feet thin and elongated (hare-like), pointing neither in nor out.\
Papillon|Fun Fact|The name Papillon means "butterfly" in French.\
Papillon|Health|Papillons are generally a healthy breed.\
Papillon|Grooming|Because they don't have an undercoat, they don't require a lot of grooming.\
Papillon|General Appearance|The Papillon is a small, friendly, elegant toy dog of fine-boned structure, light, dainty and of lively action; distinguished from other breeds by its beautiful butterfly-like ears.\
Papillon|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Papillons is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Papillon|Exercise|Very Active; Curious, quick, and athletic, Paps like exercise and take to training.\
Papillon|History|1915 - The Papillon was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Body|Neckround and rather outstretched, tapered from head to body, well muscled, with tight skin.Topline- The withers are slightly higher and slope into the back, which must be level, straight, and firm from withers to hip joints.Chest not broad, but deep. The lowest point should reach the elbow, forming a smooth ascendant curve to the abdomen.Abdomen - Moderate development. Neither tucked up nor paunchy. The loin section, viewed from above, is relatively short, broad and strong, but blending smoothly into the back. The croup is medium long, sloping gradually.Tailstrong at the base, bone to reach hock. At rest the dog holds it low, the tip bent back level with the hock. When in action he raises it and gives it a curl, which is strongest toward the tip, without forming a hook. Cropped or stump tail shall disqualify.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Forequarters|Shoulder long and oblique, laid flat against the body, forming a sharp angle (approximately 90 degrees) with the upper arm. Legs straight, strong and parallel to each other. Bone oval rather than round. Development (length and substance) should be well proportioned to the size of the dog. Pastern medium length, strong, and very slightly sloped. Feet round (cat footed), toes curved close together, well padded. Nails strong and black, except that they may be white to match white toe tips.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Head|Clean-cut and strong, overall size should be in proportion to the body.Expressionindicates alertness, attention, readiness for activity. Gaze should be intelligent and questioning.Eyesbrown, preferably dark brown. Medium size, slightly almond shaped, not protruding.Earstriangular in shape, stiff, erect, and in proportion to the head in size. Base of the ear should not come below the center of the eye. Ears hanging (as on a hound) shall disqualify.Skull- Top flattened rather than rounded. The width approximately the same, but not wider than the length. Stop moderate.Muzzlemoderately pointed, avoiding any tendency to snipiness, and approximately equal in length to that of the topskull. The jaws should be strong and powerful. Nose black without spots or discolored areas. The lips should be tight and black, with no pink showing on the outside. Teeth - A full complement of strong, white teeth, evenly set. Should not be overshot or undershot. Should have either an evenbiteor a scissors bite.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Coat|The guard hairs of the coat must be long, well fitting, straight and abundant. They should not be silky or wiry. The texture should be a medium harshness. The undercoat should be extremely dense, commensurate, however, with climatic conditions. The Belgian Sheepdog is particularly adaptable to extremes of temperature or climate. The hair is shorter on the head, outside of the ears, and lower part of the legs. The opening of the ear is protected by tufts of hair.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Hindquarters|Legs - Length and substance well proportioned to the size of the dog. Bone oval rather than round. Legs are parallel to each other. Thighs broad and heavily muscled. The upper and lower thigh bones approximately parallel the shoulder blade and upper arm respectively, forming a relatively sharp angle at stifle joint. The angle at the hock is relatively sharp, although the Belgian Sheepdog does not have extreme angulation. Metatarsus medium length, strong and slightly sloped. Dewclaws, if any, should be removed. Feet slightly elongated. Toes curved close together, well padded. Nails strong and black, except that they may be white to match white toe tips.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Fun Fact|The Belgian Sheepdog is known as the Groenendael, or Chien de Berger Belge in most parts of the world.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Health|Belgian Sheepdogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Grooming|His long soft black coat should be brushed weekly to remove mats and tangles as well as dander and dust.\
Belgian Sheepdog|General Appearance|The first impression of the Belgian Sheepdog is that of a well balanced, square dog, elegant in appearance, with an exceedingly proud carriage of the head and neck. He is a strong, agile, well-muscled animal, alert and full of life. His whole conformation gives the impression of depth and solidity without bulkiness. The male dog is usually somewhat more impressive and grand than his female counterpart. The bitch should have a distinctly feminine look.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Belgian Sheepdogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Belgian Sheepdog|Exercise|Very Active; A breed built for hard work, and plenty of it.\
Belgian Sheepdog|History|1912 - The Belgian Shepherd was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Body|Neck- Straight, short, round, and held high. Strongly muscled. No dewlap.Topline- Level and firm.Body- Chest\'a0is broad and deep, reaching down to the elbow.\'a0Ribs\'a0are long and well-sprung to provide optimum lung capacity.\'a0Abdomen\'a0well held up in a graceful line.\'a0Back\'a0is broad and well muscled.\'a0Loin is short and meets the croup smoothly.\'a0Croup\'a0is well formed and only slightly inclined with hip bones hardly apparent.Tail- Not docked; thick at the base and tapering; set on slightly below the line of the back; should not reach below the hock. When the dog is attentive the tail is held in a ring, the front of which should not reach forward of the loin. The tail is of great help when swimming and diving.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0are well inclined and very strongly muscled.\'a0Upper arms\'a0are strong.\'a0Forelegs\'a0are strong and straight with long, well muscled forearms.\'a0Carpus\'a0is heavy-boned, wider in front than at the side. Pasterns\'a0are long and strong. Dewclaws may be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0are round and rather flat. Toes neither knuckled up nor too long. Webbing between the toes is of soft skin, well covered with hair, and reaches the toe tips. Central pad is very thick, others normal. Nails held up slightly off the ground. Black, brown, white, and striped nails are allowed.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Head|An essential characteristic; distinctively large, well proportioned and with exceptional breadth of topskull.Expression- Steady, penetrating, and attentive.Eyes- Medium in size; set well apart, and a bit obliquely. Roundish and neither prominent nor sunken. Black or various tones of brown in color. Darker eyes are preferred. Eye rims fully pigmented with black edges in black, black and white, or white dogs; brown edges in brown dogs. Haws are dark and not apparent.Ears- Set well above the line of the eye. Leather is heart shaped and thin. Except for a small opening at the back, ears are held nicely against the head. Tips should not reach below the lower jaw.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Coat|A profuse, thickly planted coat of strong, healthy hair, covering the whole body evenly, except where the forearm meets the brisket and in the groin area, where it is thinner. No undercoat, mane or ruff. There are\'a0two varieties of coat:Curly- Compact, cylindrical curls, somewhat lusterless. The hair on the ears is sometimes wavy.Wavy- Falling gently in waves, not curls, and with a slight sheen.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Hindquarters|Powerful; well balanced with the front assembly.\'a0Legs,\'a0viewed from the rear, are parallel to each other, straight and very strongly muscled in upper and lower thighs.\'a0Buttocks\'a0are well developed.\'a0Tendons\'a0and hocks are strong.\'a0Metatarsus\'a0long, no dewclaws.\'a0Feet\'a0similar in all respects to forefeet.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Fun Fact|The Portuguese Water Dog has webbed feet.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Health|Portuguese Water Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Grooming|His profuse coat is hypoallergenic, but requires regular maintenance.\
Portuguese Water Dog|General Appearance|This highly intelligent utilitarian breed is distinguished by two coat types, either curly or wavy; an impressive head of considerable breadth and well proportioned mass; a ruggedly built, well-knit body; and a powerful, thickly based tail, carried gallantly or used purposefully as a rudder. The Portuguese Water Dog provides an indelible impression of strength, spirit, and soundness.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Portuguese Water Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Portuguese Water Dog|Exercise|For many enthusiasts, the most special of all the training and exercise options for your Portie is water work.\
Portuguese Water Dog|History|1983 - The Portuguese Water Dog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Spanish Water Dog|Body|Neckis in proportion to the length of the body; strong and slightly arched, blending smoothly into the shoulders.Toplineis straight.Bodyis robust. The body is slightly longer than tall in an approximate ratio of nine to eight measured from the point of shoulder to the point of buttocks. The length of the back comes from the length of the ribcage, not from that of the loin. Chest is broad and well let down, reaching at least the elbows. Ratio of depth of chest to height at withers is 50 percent of the height. Ribs are well sprung. Tuck-up is slight. Back is straight and powerful. Loin is short. Croup is slightly sloping.\
Spanish Water Dog|Forequarters|Shoulders are well-muscled and well-laid back and approximately the same length as the upper arm. The upper arm and scapula form approximately a 90-degree angle. Elbows are close to the chest and turn neither in nor out. Legs are straight,\'a0and strong with moderate bone. Pasterns are strong and flexible. Front dewclaws may be removed. Feet are round and compact. Toes are tight and well arched\
Spanish Water Dog|Head|Headis in balance with the body.Expressionis alert and attentive.Eyesare slightly oblique, very expressive and have a shade of brown from hazel to dark chestnut, with the color harmonizing with the coat.Earsare set at medium height at eye level. They are drooping and triangular in shape with slightly rounded tips. The tips should not reach past the inside corner of the eye.\
Spanish Water Dog|Coat|The hair is a single coat, always curly and of a wooly texture. It is never brushed or combed and is shown either in natural curls or in rustic cords with tapered tips. The ends of the cords usually show a curl.\'a0The entire body, including the head, should be well covered with hair. \'a0In full coat, the hair will cover the eyes.\'a0\'a0Clipped subjects are allowed, the clipping always complete and even, never to become an "aesthetic" grooming.\'a0\'a0Minimal hygienic trimming is allowed but should not be noticeable on presentation.\'a0\'a0For shows, the recommended extended length of the coat is between 1 inch and 5 inches to demonstrate the quality of the curl or cord.\'a0\'a0Any brushing, aesthetic trimming, or sculpting of the coat that alters natural appearance\'a0is to be severely penalized.\'a0Traditionally, the Spanish Water Dog was sheared one time per year (with the sheep), the same length all over.\'a0 Disqualification - Smooth or wavy coat.\
Spanish Water Dog|Hindquarters|The hindquarters give an impression of strength and energetic impulsion. Angulation is in balance with the front. Upper thigh is well muscled. Stifle is well bent. Second thigh is well developed. Hock joint is well let down. Rear pastern is short and perpendicular to the ground. Dewclaws if present are to be removed. Feet are as the front.\
Spanish Water Dog|Fun Fact|The Spanish Water Dog has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Spanish Water Dog|Health|Spanish Water Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Spanish Water Dog|Grooming|The profuse curly coat requires no brushing or combing, and can be clipped close or worn long.\
Spanish Water Dog|General Appearance|A rustic breed of the\'a0Iberian Peninsula, the Spanish Water Dog is a sturdy, medium sized, well proportioned, athletic dog that is suited to perform a variety of tasks including herding, hunting, and assisting fishermen. He is a loyal, vigilant,\'a0and intelligent working dog with strong herding instincts. His working ability is attributed to an intense desire to please. In profile, the Spanish Water Dog is\'a0slightly longer than tall. He has a distinctive curly coat,\'a0which is adapted to the variation of humidity and drought of his homeland.\
Spanish Water Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Spanish Water Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Spanish Water Dog|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Spanish Water Dog|History|2015 - The Spanish Water Dog was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Whippet|Body|Necklong, clean and muscular, well arched with no suggestion of throatiness, widening gracefully into the top of the shoulder. A short thick neck, or a ewe neck, should be penalized. The back is broad, firm and well muscled, having length over the loin. Thebacklineruns smoothly from the withers with a graceful natural arch, not too accentuated, beginning over the loin and carrying through over the croup; the arch is continuous without flatness. A dip behind shoulder blades, wheelback, flat back, or a steep or flat croup should be penalized. Brisket very deep, reaching as nearly as possible to the point of the elbow. Ribs well sprung but with no suggestion of barrel shape. The space between the forelegs is filled in so that there is no appearance of a hollow between them. There is a definite tuckup of the underline. Thetaillong and tapering, reaching toat least the inside of thehock when measured down along thehind leg. When the dog is in motion, the tail is carried low with only a gentle upward curve; tail should not be carried higher than top of back.\
Whippet|Forequarters|Shoulder blade long, well laid back, with flat muscles, allowing for moderate space between shoulder blades at peak of withers. Upper arm of equal length, placed so that the elbow falls directly under the withers.The points of the elbows should point neither in nor out, but straight back. A steep shoulder, short upper arm, a heavily muscled or loaded shoulder, or a very narrow shoulder, all of which restrict low free movement, should be strictly penalized. Forelegs straight, giving appearance of strength and substance of bone. Pasterns strong, slightly bent and flexible. Bowed legs, tied-in elbows, legs lacking substance, legs set far under the body so as to create an exaggerated forechest, weak or upright pasterns should be strictly penalized.\
Whippet|Head|Keen intelligent alertexpression.Eyeslarge, round to oval in shape. Small and/or almond shaped eyes are undesirable and are to be faulted. Eyes to be dark brown to nearly black in color. Eye color can vary with coat color, but regardless of coat color dark eyes are always preferred. Light eyes are undesirable and yellow eyes are to be strictly penalized. Blue eye(s) or any portion of blue in the eye(s), as well as both eyes not being of the same color shall disqualify. Fully pigmented eye rims are desirable. Roseears, small, fine in texture; in repose, thrown back and folded along neck. Fold should be maintained when at attention. Erect ears should be severely penalized.\
Whippet|Coat|Short, close, smooth and firm in texture. Any other coat shall be a disqualification. Old scars and injuries, the result of work or accident, should not be allowed to prejudice the dog's chance in the show ring.\
Whippet|Hindquarters|Long and powerful. The thighs are broad and muscular, stifles well bent; muscles are long and flat and carry well down toward the hock. The hocks are well let down and close to the ground. Sickle or cow hocks should be strictly penalized.\
Whippet|Fun Fact|The Whippet is extremely fast, capable of reaching speeds up to 35 mph.\
Whippet|Health|The Whippet is generally a healthy breed with a robust constitution.\
Whippet|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Whippet|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Whippets is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Whippet|Exercise|The Whippet is a sprinting breed, not an endurance one.\
Whippet|History|1888 - The Whippet was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Beagle|Body|Neckrising free and light from the shoulders strong in substance yet not loaded, of medium length. The throat clean and free from folds of skin; a slight wrinkle below the angle of the jaw, however, may be allowable. Defects-A thick, short, cloddy neck carried on a line with the top of the shoulders. Throat showing dewlap and folds of skin to a degree termed "throatiness."Shoulders sloping-clean, muscular, not heavy or loaded-conveying the idea of freedom of action with activity and strength. Chest deep and broad, but not broad enough to interfere with the free play of the shoulders. Defects-Straight, upright shoulders. Chest disproportionately wide or with lack of depth.\
Beagle|Head|Theskullshould be fairly long, slightly domed at occiput, with cranium broad and full.Ears-Ears set on moderately low, long, reaching when drawn out nearly, if not quite, to the end of the nose; fine in texture, fairly broad-with almost entire absence of erectile power-setting close to the head, with the forward edge slightly inturning to the cheek-rounded at tip.Eyes-Eyes large, set well apart-soft and houndlike-expression gentle and pleading; of a brown or hazel color.Muzzle-Muzzle of medium length-straight and square-cut-the stop moderately defined. Jaws-Level. Lips free from flews; nostrils large and open. Defects-A very flat skull, narrow across the top; excess of dome, eyes small, sharp and terrierlike, or prominent and protruding; muzzle long, snipy or cut away decidedly below the eyes, or very short. Roman-nosed, or upturned, giving a dish-face expression. Ears short, set on high or with a tendency to rise above the point of origin.\
Beagle|Coat|A close, hard, hound coat of medium length. Defects-A short, thin coat, or of a soft quality.\
Beagle|Health|Beagles are generally a healthy breed.\
Beagle|Fun Fact|Beagles are scent hounds used primarily for hunting rabbits to larger hares.\
Beagle|Grooming|They have a short, easy-to-care-for coats.\
Beagle|General Appearance|A miniature Foxhound, solid and big for his inches, with the wear-and-tear look of the hound that can last in the chase and follow his quarry to the death.\
Beagle|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Beagles is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Beagle|Exercise|Very Active; This quick, energetic and compact hound dog needs plenty of exercise.\
Beagle|History|1885 - The Beagle was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Body|Theneckis moderately long, very muscular, but not too thick, slightly arched, free from all tendency to throatiness.Topline-The topline of the dog, from the withers to the croup should be level, not sloping. The croup should be well rounded and sloping slightly downward to the tailset.Body-The body is strong & muscular with a deep chest and well sprung ribs. The back is very muscular and powerful.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Forequarters|Angulation-The shoulders are well laid back. Elbow-The elbows are free, turning neither in nor out. Legs-The forelegs are straight and sinewy, well boned, with strong pasterns. Feet-The feet are close-knit with plenty of feathering between toes.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Head|The gentle expression displays a kindly, friendly attitude. Theeyesare dark hazel or dark brown; round, with slight prominence but without haw. Theearsare set level with the eyes, well back, lying close to the head.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Coat|Long silky fine hair called "Feathering" is present on the back of the fore and hind legs and on the outer ear flap, also a reasonable amount is on the flank extending onto the chest and throat forming a fringe. All feathering is straight, flat and not overly profuse. The tail is well feathered. On the head, front of legs and other parts of the body the hair is short, flat and free from curl but a slight wave is permissible.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are wide and powerful. Legs-The legs are of strong bone, well muscled and sinewy. The thighs, from hip to hock, are long and muscular. The stifle is well bent. The hock is well let down and turns neither in nor out, hocks are of moderate length and strong. Feet-The feet are close-knit with plenty of feathering between toes.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Fun Fact|Ireland included the Irish Red and White Setter with the Irish Setter on a postage stamp in 1993.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Health|Irish Red and White Setter are generally a healthy breed.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Grooming|The breed's coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush, trimming, and the occasional bath\
Irish Red and White Setter|General Appearance|The Irish Red and White Setter is bred primarily for the field. The standard as set out hereunder must be interpreted chiefly from this point of view and all judges at bench shows must be encouraged to judge the exhibits chiefly from the working standpoint. The appearance is strong and powerful, well balanced and proportioned without lumber; athletic rather than racy with an aristocratic, keen and intelligent attitude.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Irish Red and White Setter is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Irish Red and White Setter|Exercise|The Irish Red and White Setter is an athlete and as such requires regular exercise.\
Irish Red and White Setter|History|2009 - The Irish Red and White Setter was first recognized by the AKC.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Body|Neck- medium length, full and set well into the shoulders. There are moderate to heavy folds of loose skin and abundant dewlap about the neck and throat. Thetoplinedips slightly behind the withers, slightly rising over the short, broad loin. A level, roach or swayed topline/backline shall be faulted.Chest- broad and deep with the brisket extending to the elbow and rising slightly under the loin.Back- short and close-coupled.Croup- flat, with the base of the tail set extremely high, clearly exposing an up-tilted anus.Tail- the high set tail is a characteristic feature of the Shar-Pei. A low set tail shall be faulted. The tail is thick and round at the base, tapering to a fine point and curling over or to either side of the back.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Forequarters|Shoulders- muscular, well laid back and sloping.Forelegs- when viewed from the front, straight moderately spaced, with elbows close to the body. When viewed from the side, the forelegs are straight, the pasterns are strong and flexible. The bone is substantial but never heavy and is of moderate length. Removal of front dewclaws is optional.Feet- moderate in size, compact and firmly set, not splayed.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Head|Theheadis large, slightly, but not overly, proudly carried and covered with profuse wrinkles on the forehead continuing into side wrinkles framing the face.Eyes- Dark, small, almond-shaped and sunken, displaying a scowling expression. In the dilute colored dogs the eye color may be lighter.Ears- extremely small, rather thick, equilateral triangles in shape, slightly rounded at the tips; edges of the ear may curl. Ears lie flat against the head, are set high, wide apart and forward on the skull, pointing toward the eyes. The ears have the ability to move.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Coat|The extremely harsh coat is one of the distinguishing features of the breed. The coat is absolutely straight and off standing on the main trunk of the body but generally lies somewhat flatter on the limbs. The coat appears healthy without being shiny or lustrous. Acceptable coat lengths may range from extremely short "horse coat" up to the "brush coat," not to exceed 1 inch in length at the withers. A soft coat, a wavy coat, a coat in excess of one inch at the withers or a coat that has been trimmed is a major fault. The Shar-Pei is shown in its natural state.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Hindquarters|Muscular, strong, and moderately angulated. The metatarsi (hocks) are short, perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other when viewed from the rear. Hind dewclaws must be removed. Feet as in front.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Fun Fact|The Shar-Pei, like the Chow-Chow, has a blue-black tongue; these are the only two breeds featuring this characteristic.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Health|Puppies need and deserve regular health care.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Grooming|The Shar-Pei are not always agreeable to grooming, so it\'92s a good idea to start grooming routines at an early age.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|General Appearance|An alert, compact dog of medium size and substance; square in profile, close coupled; the well-proportioned head slightly but not overly large for the body. The short, harsh coat, the loose skin covering the head and body, the small ears, the "hippopotamus" muzzle shape and the high set tail impart to the Shar-Pei a unique look peculiar to him alone. The loose skin and wrinkles covering the head, neck and body are superabundant in puppies but these features may be limited to the head, neck and withers in the adult.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Shar-Pei is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|Exercise|The old guarding instinct remains strong: Shar-Pei are suspicious of strangers and other dogs.\
Chinese Shar-Pei|History|1992 - The Chinese Shar-Pei was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Spinone Italiano|Body|Neck-Strong, thick, and muscular. Clearly defined from the nape, blending in to the shoulders in a harmonious line. The throat is moderate in skin with a double dewlap. Chest - Broad, deep, well muscled and well rounded; extending at least to the elbow. The ribs are well sprung. The distance from ground to the elbow is equal to \'bd the height at the withers. Back - Thetoplineconsists of two segments. The first slopes slightly downward in a nearly straight line from the withers to the eleventh thoracic vertebrae, approximately 6 inches behind the withers. The second rises gradually and continues into a solid and well-arched loin. The underline is solid and should have minimal tuck up. Croup - Well muscled, long. The hipbones fall away from the spinal column at an angle of about 30 degrees, producing a lightly rounded, well filled-out croup.\
Spinone Italiano|Forequarters|Powerful and long, withers not too prominent; forming an angle with the upper arm of approximately angle 105. With well-developed muscles, the points of the shoulder blades are not close together. The ideal distance between the shoulder blades is approximately two inches or more. Angulation of shoulder is in balance with angulation in the rear. Forelegs: The forelegs are straight when viewed from the front angle with strong bone and well-developed muscles; elbows set under the withers and close to the body. Pasterns are long, lean and flexible following the vertical line of the forearm. In profile, they are slightly slanted.\
Spinone Italiano|Head|Expressionis of paramount importance to the breed. It should denote intelligence and gentleness.Eyes -Must have a soft sweet expression. Ochre (yellowish brown) in color, darker eyes with darker colored dogs, lighter eyes with lighter colored dogs. Large, well opened, set well apart, the eye is almost round, the lids closely fitting the eye, to protect the eye from gathering debris while the dog is hunting, loose eye lids must be faulted. Which is neither protruding nor deep set. Eye rim clearly visible, color will vary with coat color from flesh colored to brown.\
Spinone Italiano|Coat|A Spinone must have a correct coat to be of correct type. The ideal coat length is 1\'bd to 2\'bd inches on the body, with a tolerance of \'bd inch over or under the ideal length. Head, ears, muzzle and front sides of legs and feet are covered by shorter hair. The hair on the backsides of the legs forms a rough brush, but there are never any fringes. The eyes and lips are framed by stiff hair forming eyebrows, mustache and tufted beard, which combine to save fore face from laceration by briar and bush. The coat is dense, stiff and flat or slightly crimped, but not curly, with an absence of undercoat. The Spinone is exhibited in a natural state.\
Spinone Italiano|Hindquarters|Thighs are strong and well muscled, stifles show good function angulation, lower thigh to be well developed and muscled with good breadth. The hock, with proportion of one third the distance from the hip joint to foot being ideal, is strong, lean and perpendicular to the ground. Fault - Cowhocks. Feet - Slightly more oval than the forefoot with the same characteristics. Dewclaws may be removed.\
Spinone Italiano|Fun Fact|The Spinone is also known as the Italian Coarsehaired Pointer.\
Spinone Italiano|Health|Spinone Italianos are generally a healthy breed.\
Spinone Italiano|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Spinone Italiano|General Appearance|Muscular dog with powerful bone. Vigorous and robust, his purpose as hardworking gun dog is evident. Naturally sociable, the docile and patient Spinone is resistant to fatigue and is an experienced hunter on any terrain. His hard textured coat is weather resistant. His wiry, dense coat and thick skin enable the Spinone to negotiate underbrush and endure cold water that would severely punish any dog not so naturally armored. He has a remarkable tendency for an extended and fast trotting gait. The Spinone is an excellent retriever by nature.\
Spinone Italiano|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Spinone Italianos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Spinone Italiano|Exercise|Spinoni need daily exercise.\
Spinone Italiano|History|2000 - The Spinone Italiano was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Coton de Tulear|Forequarters|Shoulders - The shoulder is muscular. Shoulder Blades - The shoulder blades are laid back to somewhat near a 30 degree angle off the vertical. Upper Arm - The length of the upper arm corresponds approximately to that of the shoulder blade. The upper arm extends well back so that the elbow is placed directly below the top of the shoulder blade when viewed from the side and structurally the elbows are held close to the body. The scapula- humeral angle is about 120 degrees. Legs - The front legs are upright. The lower arms are vertical and parallel. They are well-muscled with good bone. The length of the lower arm corresponds approximately to that of the upper arm.\
Coton de Tulear|Head|Theheadis short and triangular in shape when seen from above. The length of the head (nose to occiput) in relationship to the length of the body (point of shoulder to point of buttock) is 2 to 5.Expression- The expression is lively, intelligent, inquisitive, alert and happy. The Cotons joy of life is displayed in their expression.Eyes- The eyes are rather rounded, dark brown or black in color, lively, set wide apart with the inner corners and the outer corners on the same level. The rims of the eyelids are completely pigmented in black. Severe Fault - An overly large or bulging eye is a severe fault as is an almond shaped, obliquely set eye. Disqualifications - Eye/s of any color other than brown or black. Total lack of pigment on the eye rim(s).\
Coton de Tulear|Coat|This is one of the main characteristics of the breed from which its very name derives. The coat is very soft and supple, with the texture of cotton. It is never hard or rough. The coat is dense, profuse and can be very slightly wavy. A puppy coat is much softer in texture than an adult coat. Severe Fault -Atypical hair or hair that is tightly curled, wooly or silky. Skin - The skin is fine and stretched tight all over the body. Although of pink color, it can be pigmented.\
Coton de Tulear|Hindquarters|Angulation - The pelvis is sloped at approximately 30 degrees off the horizontal. The pelvis meets the femur at an angle of about 80 degrees. The angle of femur to lower thigh is about 120 degrees. Legs - The hind legs are muscular from hip to hock. Upper and Second Thigh - The upper thigh and lower thigh are approximately equal in length. Hock Joint - The hock joint is dry and well defined. The height of the hock joint when measured to the ground is slightly less than the length of the lower thigh.\
Coton de Tulear|Fun Fact|The name is pronounced coTAWN day two-LEE are.\
Coton de Tulear|Health|Coton de Tulears are generally a healthy breed.\
Coton de Tulear|Grooming|Grooming the adult Coton requires brushing several times a week with a special pin brush to maintain a full coat.\
Coton de Tulear|General Appearance|The Coton de Tulear, also known as the "Royal Dog of Madagascar", is a hardy, sturdy small white companion dog.\'a0The Coton de Tulear is characterized by a natural long, white, dry, profuse, cotton-like coat, rounded lively dark eyes, black on white joie de vivre expressive smile and witty personality. The breed is somewhat longer than tall. The topline is very slightly arched over the loin with a happily carried tail curved over the back on the move. At rest, the tail is down with an upward hook at the tip revealing the distinguishing outline of the Coton de Tulear.\
Coton de Tulear|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Coton de Tulears is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Coton de Tulear|Exercise|The primary occupation of Cotons is to provide amusement, comfort, and companionship to their favorite human.\
Coton de Tulear|History|2014 - The Coton de Tulear was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Pudelpointer|Fun Fact|The Pudelpointer has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since July 2016.\
Ibizan Hound|Body|Theneckis long, slender, slightly arched and strong, yet flat muscled. Thetopline, from ears to tail, is smooth and flowing. The back is level and straight.Body-The chest is deep and long with the breastbone sharply angled and prominent. The ribs are slightly sprung. The brisket is approximately 2\'bd inches above the elbow. The deepest part of the chest, behind the elbow, is nearly to or to the elbow. The abdomen is well tucked up, but not exaggerated. The loin is very slightly arched, of medium breadth and well muscled. The croup is very slightly sloping. Thetailis set low, highly mobile, and reaches at least to the hock. It is carried in a sickle, ring, or saber position, according to the mood and individual specimen.\
Ibizan Hound|Forequarters|Angulation is moderate. The shouldersare elastic but never loose with moderate breadth at the withers. The shoulder blades are well laid back. At the point of the shoulder they join to a rather upright upper arm. The elbow is positioned in front of the deepest part of the chest. It is well held in but not so much as to restrict movement. Legs -The forearms are very long, strong, straight, and close, lying flat on the chest and continuing in a straight line to the ground. Bone is clean and fine. The pasterns are strong and flexible, slightly sloping, with well developed tendons. Dewclaw removal is optional. Feet: hare-foot. The toes are long, closed and very strong. Interdigital spaces are well protected by hair. Pads are durable. Nails are white.\
Ibizan Hound|Head|Long and narrow in the form of a sharp cone truncated at its base. Finely chiseled and extremely dry fleshed.Expression-The Ibizan has an elegant, deer-like look. Theeyesare oblique and small, ranging in color from clear amber to caramel. The rims are the color of the nose and are fully or partially pigmented. The appearance of the eye is intelligent, alert and inquisitive. Theearsare large, pointed, and natural. On alert the ear should never droop, bend, or crease. Highly mobile, the ear can point forward, sideways, or be folded backward, according to mood. On alert, the lowest point of the base is at level of the eye. On frontal examination, the height of the ear is approximately 2\'bd times that of the widest point of the base.\
Ibizan Hound|Coat|There are two types of coat; both untrimmed. Short-shortest on head and ears and longest at back of the thighs and under the tail.Wire-hairedcan be from one to three inches in length with a possible generous mustache. There is more hair on the back, back of thighs, and tail. Both types of coat are hard in texture and neither coat is preferable to the other.\
Ibizan Hound|Hindquarters|Angulation is moderate with the hindquarters being set under the body. Legs - The thighs are very strong with flat muscling. The hocks are straight when viewed from the rear. Bone is clean and fine. There are no rear dewclaws. The feet are as in front.\
Ibizan Hound|Fun Fact|Ibizan Hound history is traceable back to approximately 3400 BC.\
Ibizan Hound|Health|Ibizan Hounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Ibizan Hound|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming and the occasional bath.\
Ibizan Hound|General Appearance|The Ibizan's clean-cut lines, large prick ears and light pigment give it a unique appearance. A hunting dog whose quarry is primarily rabbits, this ancient hound was bred for thousands of years with function being of prime importance. Lithe and racy, the Ibizan possesses a deerlike elegance combined with the power of a hunter. Strong, without appearing heavily muscled, the Ibizan is a hound of moderation. With the exception of the ears, he should not appear extreme or exaggerated.\
Ibizan Hound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Ibizan Hounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Ibizan Hound|Exercise|Very Active; World-class sprinters and leapers, Beezers need ample, secure space to air out their engines.\
Ibizan Hound|History|1978 - The Ibizan Hound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Body|Theneckis of medium length, slightly arched and devoid of dewlap. The entireback lineshowing a perceptible slope down from withers to croup. The skin throughout is notably tight to the body. The chest is deep and capacious with ribs well sprung. The tuck-up apparent. The back is short, straight and strong. Loins are taut and slender. Hips are broad with the croup nicely rounded. Thetailis set high, carried at or above the horizontal when the dog is alert. The tail is docked to approximately two-fifths of its original length.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Forequarters|The shoulders are well laid back. The forelegs are straight with elbows close. Leg bones are flat rather than round, and strong, but not so heavy or coarse as to militate against the dog's natural agility. Dewclaws are generally removed. Round in outline the feet are webbed, high arched with toes close, pads thick and hard, and nails strong and quite heavy.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Head|Theheadis moderately long.Eyesare brown, medium in size, oval in contour, bright and clear and overhung with medium length eyebrows. Yellow eyes are not desirable. Theearsare rounded but not too broad and hang close to the head. Theskullbroad and the occipital bone not too prominent. The stop is medium. Themuzzleis fairly long with nasal bone straight, broad and parallel to the top of the skull. The nose is dark brown with nostrils wide open. A spotted or flesh colored nose is to be penalized. The lips are a trifle pendulous but close to the jaw and bearded. The jaws are strong with a full complement of evenly set and properly intermeshing teeth. The incisors meet in a true scissorsbite.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Coat|The functional wiry coat is the breed's most distinctive feature. A dog must have a correct coat to be of correct type. The coat is weather resistant and, to some extent, water-repellent. The undercoat is dense enough in winter to insulate against the cold but is so thin in summer as to be almost invisible. The distinctive outer coat is straight, harsh, wiry and flat lying, and is from one to two inches in length. The outer coat is long enough to protect against the punishment of rough cover, but not so long as to hide the outline of the dog. On the lower legs the coat is shorter and between the toes it is of softer texture. On the skull the coat is naturally short and close fitting. Over the shoulders and around the tail it is very dense and heavy. The tail is nicely coated, particularly on the underside, but devoid of feather. Eyebrows are of strong, straight hair. Beard and whiskers are medium length.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Hindquarters|The angles of the hindquarters balances that of the forequarters. A straight line drawn vertically from the buttock (ischium) to the ground should land just in front of the rear foot. The thighs are strong and muscular. The hind legs are parallel when viewed from the rear. The hocks (metatarsus) are short, straight and parallel turning neither in nor out. Dewclaws are generally removed. Feet as in forequarters.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Fun Fact|The German Wirehaired Pointer works equally well in land and water, in part due to the unique coat.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Health|German Wirehaired Pointers are generally a healthy breed.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Grooming|Although they shed lightly year-round, Wirehairs with a correct coat require only minimal grooming.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|General Appearance|The German Wirehaired Pointer is a well muscled, medium sized dog of distinctive appearance. Balanced in size and sturdily built, the breed's most distinguishing characteristics are its weather resistant, wire-like coat and its facial furnishings. Typically Pointer in character and style, the German Wirehaired Pointer is an intelligent, energetic and determined hunter.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for German Wirehaired Pointers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|Exercise|Very Active; GWPs are versatile, upbeat athletes who thrive on outdoor sports.\
German Wirehaired Pointer|History|1959 - The German Wirehaired Pointer was officially recognized by the AKC\
Alaskan Malamute|Forequarters|The shoulders are moderately sloping; forelegs heavily boned and muscled, straight to the pasterns when viewed from the front. Pasterns are short and strong and slightly sloping when viewed from the side. The feet are of the snowshoe type, tight and deep, with well-cushioned pads, giving a firm, compact appearance. The feet are large, toes tight fitting and well arched. There is a protective growth of hair between the toes. The pads are thick and tough; toenails short and strong.\
Alaskan Malamute|Head|Theheadis broad and deep, not coarse or clumsy, but in proportion to the size of the dog. Theexpressionis soft and indicates an affectionate disposition. Theeyesare obliquely placed in the skull. Eyes are brown, almond shaped and of medium size. Dark eyes are preferred. Blue eyes are a disqualifying fault. Theearsare of medium size, but small in proportion to the head. The ears are triangular in shape and slightly rounded at the tips. They are set wide apart on the outside back edges of the skull on line with the upper corner of the eye, giving ears the appearance, when erect, of standing off from the skull. Erect ears point slightly forward, but when the dog is at work, the ears are sometimes folded against the skull. High set ears are a fault.\
Alaskan Malamute|Coat|The Malamute has a thick, coarse guard coat, never long and soft. The undercoat is dense, from one to two inches in depth, oily and woolly. The coarse guard coat varies in length as does the undercoat. The coat is relatively short to medium along the sides of the body, with the length of the coat increasing around the shoulders and neck, down the back, over the rump, and in the breeching and plume. Malamutes usually have a shorter and less dense coat during the summer months. The Malamute is shown naturally. Trimming is not acceptable except to provide a clean cut appearance of feet.\
Alaskan Malamute|Hindquarters|The rear legs are broad and heavily muscled through the thighs; stifles moderately bent; hock joints are moderately bent and well let down. When viewed from the rear, the legs stand and move true in line with the movement of the front legs, not too close or too wide. Dewclaws on the rear legs are undesirable and should be removed shortly after puppies are whelped.\
Alaskan Malamute|Fun Fact|The Mal is one of the oldest Arctic sled dogs.\
Alaskan Malamute|Health|A strong, challenging and opinionated breed.\
Alaskan Malamute|Grooming|They have thick coats, which shed heavily twice a year.\
Alaskan Malamute|General Appearance|The Alaskan Malamute, one of the oldest Arctic sled dogs, is a powerful and substantially built dog with a deep chest and strong, well-muscled body. The Malamute stands well over the pads, and this stance gives the appearance of much activity and a proud carriage, with head erect and eyes alert showing interest and curiosity. The head is broad. Ears are triangular and erect when alerted. The muzzle is bulky, only slight diminishing in width from root to nose. The muzzle is not pointed or long, yet not stubby. The coat is thick with a coarse guard coat of sufficient length to protect a woolly undercoat. Malamutes are of various colors. Face markings are a distinguishing feature. These consist of a cap over the head, the face either all white or marked with a bar and/or mask. The tail is well furred, carried over the back, and has the appearance of a waving plume.\
Alaskan Malamute|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Alaskan Malamutes is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Alaskan Malamute|Exercise|Somewhat Active; A very strong dog built for heavy work, the big guy craves regular exercise.\
Alaskan Malamute|History|1935 - The Alaskan Malamute was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Spanish Mastiff|Fun Fact|The Spanish Mastiff has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Body|Neck- Very muscular and of moderate length.Topline- Straight, slightly rising to a very strong well-muscled loin with no drop-off at the croup.Body- Deep, long and fully muscled. Longer than high with the ideal ratio of body length to shoulder height approximately five (length) to three (height).Chest- Wide, strong and deep, extending below the elbows.Ribs- Well sprung with neither a flat nor a barrel appearance.Loin- Strong and well muscled.Tail- Docked to approximately half-length, in balance with the overall dog and long enough to allow a good handhold. Strong at root, well set on and carried gaily. Dogs with undocked tails not to be penalized.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Forequarters|Short, bowed and well boned.Forearmshould curve slightly around the chest. Upper arm (humerus) nearly equal in length to the shoulder blades (scapula). Feet to turn out slightly but perceptibly from pasterns.Feet- Compact and strong with rounded pads.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Head|The head must be powerful and strong with no suggestion of coarseness. Impressive in size yet in balance with, and in proportion to, the overall size and symmetry of the dog.Eyes- Brown, medium size, round and set well apart. Light eyes should be penalized.Ears- Small, rose or half pricked when alert, thrown back when in repose. Set wide apart and well back on the top outer edge of the skull. Full drop or prick ears undesirable.Nose- Black.Teeth- Set in a strong jaw, sound, regular, and of good size. Full dentition. Scissors bite preferred; level mouth accepted.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Coat|Medium length, of harsh texture with a soft undercoat. The coat may be tidied to present a neat outline characteristic of a rough-and-ready working terrier. Over trimming of dogs is undesirable.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Hindquarters|Strong and well muscled, with ample bone and in balance with forequarters. Good bend of stifle and a well-defined second thigh. Hocks turn neither in nor out, are short, well let down and perpendicular from hock to ground. Feet - As front, except they should point forward.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Fun Fact|The Glen of Imaal Terrier was initially bred to rid the home and farm of vermin, and hunt badger and fox.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Health|Glen of Imaal Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Grooming|The Glen of Imaal Terrier is a harsh-coated breed that requires stripping twice a year.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|General Appearance|The Glen of Imaal Terrier, named for the region in the Wicklow Mountains of Ireland where it was developed long ago, is a medium sized working terrier. Longer than tall and sporting a double coat of medium length, the Glen possesses great strength and should always convey the impression of maximum substance for size of dog. Unrefined to this day, the breed still possesses "antique" features once common to many early terrier types; its distinctive head with rose or half-prick ears, its bowed forequarters with turned out feet, its unique outline and topline are hallmarks of the breed and essential to the breed type.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Glen of Imaal Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; By no means a frantic dog, but Glens do like intense play, digging, and exploring.\
Glen of Imaal Terrier|History|2004 - The Glen of Imaal Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|Health|\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|Fun Fact|The Teddy Roosevelt Terrier has been assigned the Terrier Group designation.\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|Grooming|\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|Exercise|\
Teddy Roosevelt Terrier|History|Augu - st 2016The Teddy Roosevelt Terrier first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Forequarters|The shoulders are moderately laid back, flat-lying, well-muscled and never loose. The legs are straight and strong and the elbows are well under the shoulder when the dog is standing. The pasterns slope very slightly, but are never weak. Dewclaws may be removed. The feet are round and compact with well-arched toes.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Head|Expressionis intelligent, animated and gentle. Theeyesare dark brown and slightly oval in shape with close-fitting eyelids. Inverted or everted eyelids are serious faults. Blue eye color is a disqualification. Theearsare medium sized, set high, triangular in shape, gently rounded at the tip, and hang close to the head when in repose. When the Bernese Mountain Dog is alert, the ears are brought forward and raised at the base; the top of the ear is level with the top of the skull. Theskullis flat on top and broad, with a slight furrow and a well-defined, but not exaggerated stop. Themuzzleis strong and straight. The nose is always black. The lips are clean and, as the Bernese Mountain Dog is a dry-mouthed breed, the flews are only slightly developed. The teeth meet in a scissorsbite. An overshot or undershot bite is a serious fault. Dentition is complete.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Coat|The coat is thick, moderately long and slightly wavy or straight. It has a bright natural sheen. Extremely curly or extremely dull-looking coats are undesirable. The Bernese Mountain Dog is shown in natural coat and undue trimming is to be discouraged.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Hindquarters|The thighs are broad, strong and muscular. The stifles are moderately bent and taper smoothly into the hocks. The hocks are well let down and straight as viewed from the rear. Dewclaws should be removed. Feet are compact and turn neither in nor out.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Fun Fact|The Bernese is one of four varieties of Swiss Mountain Dog.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Health|Bernese Mountain Dogs can be healthy.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Grooming|As a double-coated breed, they also tend to shed considerably, and require regular brushing.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|General Appearance|The Bernese Mountain Dog is a striking. tri-colored, large dog. He is sturdy and balanced. He is intelligent, strong and agile enough to do the draft and droving work for which he was used in the mountainous regions of his origin. Male dogs appear masculine, while bitches are distinctly feminine.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bernese Mountain Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|Exercise|They love outdoor activities, like hiking or even pulling young children in a cart.\
Bernese Mountain Dog|History|1937 - The Bernese Mountain Dog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Eurasier|Health|Eurasiers are generally a healthy breed.\
Eurasier|Fun Fact|The Eurasier has been assigned the Non-Sporting Group designation.\
Eurasier|Grooming|The breed's long-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a  brush.\
Eurasier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Eurasiers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Eurasier|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Eurasier|History|2008 - The Eurasier was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
French Bulldog|Forequarters|Forelegsare short, stout, straight, muscular and set wide apart. Dewclaws may be removed.Feetare moderate in size, compact and firmly set. Toes compact, well split up, with high knuckles and short stubby nails.\
French Bulldog|Head|Headlarge and square.Eyesdark in color, wide apart, set low down in the skull, as far from the ears as possible, round in form, of moderate size, neither sunken nor bulging. In lighter colored dogs, lighter colored eyes are acceptable. No haw and no white of the eye showing when looking forward.EarsKnown as the bat ear, broad at the base, elongated, with round top, set high on the head but not too close together, and carried erect with the orifice to the front. The leather of the ear fine and soft. Other than bat ears is adisqualification. The top of theskullflat between the ears; the forehead is not flat but slightly rounded.\
French Bulldog|Coat|Coat is moderately fine, brilliant, short and smooth. Skin is soft and loose, especially at the head and shoulders, forming wrinkles.\
French Bulldog|Hindquarters|Hind legsare strong and muscular, longer than the forelegs, so as to elevate the loins above the shoulders. Hocks well let down.Feetare moderate in size, compact and firmly set. Toes compact, well split up, with high knuckles and short stubby nails; hind feet slightly longer than forefeet.\
French Bulldog|Fun Fact|Two distinctive features of the French Bulldog are its bat ears and roach back.\
French Bulldog|Health|Find a good veterinarian, preferably one who has other short-faced patients.\
French Bulldog|Grooming|The Frenchie requires minimal exercise and grooming.\
French Bulldog|General Appearance|The French Bulldog has the appearance of an active, intelligent, muscular dog of heavy bone, smooth coat, compactly built, and of medium or small structure. Expression alert, curious, and interested. Any alteration other than removal of dewclaws is considered mutilation and is adisqualification.Proportion and Symmetry- All points are well distributed and bear good relation one to the other; no feature being in such prominence from either excess or lack of quality that the animal appears poorly proportioned.\
French Bulldog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for French Bulldogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
French Bulldog|Exercise|Not Very Active; Frenchies are easygoing, not terribly athletic; brisk walks will keep them trim.\
French Bulldog|History|1898 - The French Bulldog was officially recognized by the AKC\
Portuguese Pointer|Fun Fact|The Portuguese Pointer is often used for hunting upland game birds as well as rabbit.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Body|Neckshould be clean, muscular, of fair length, free from throatiness and presenting a graceful curve when viewed from the side. Thebackshould be short and level with no appearance of slackness the loins\'a0muscular and very slightly arched. The term "slackness" is applied both to the portion of the back immediately behind the withers when it shows any tendency to dip, and also the flanks when there is too much space between the back ribs and hipbone. When there is little space between the ribs and hips, the dog is said to be "short in couplings," "short-coupled," or "well ribbed up." A Terrier can scarcely be too short in back, provided he has sufficient length of neck and liberty of movement. The bitch may be slightly longer in couplings than the dog.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0when viewed from the front should slope steeply downwards from their juncture, with the neck towards the points, which should be fine. When viewed from the side they should be long, well laid back, and should slope obliquely backwards from points to withers, which should always be clean-cut. A shoulder well laid back gives the long forehand which, in combination with a short back, is so desirable in Terrier or Hunter.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Head|The length of theheadof a full-grown well developed dog of correct size - measured with calipers - from the back of the occipital bone to the nostrils-should be from 7 to 7\'bc inches, the bitch's head being proportionately shorter. Any measurement in excess of this usually indicates an oversized or long-backed specimen, although occasionally - so rarely as to partake of the nature of a freak - a Terrier of correct size may boast a head 7\'bd inches in length. In a well balanced head there should be little apparent difference in length between skull and foreface. If, however, the foreface is noticeably shorter, it amounts to a fault, the head looking weak and "unfinished." On the other hand, when the eyes are set too high up in the skull and too near the ears, it also amounts to a fault, the head being said to have a "foreign appearance."\
Wire Fox Terrier|Coat|The best coats appear to be broken, the hairs having a tendency to twist, and are of dense, wiry texture - like coconut matting - the hairs growing so closely and strongly together that, when parted with the fingers, the skin cannot be seen. At the base of these stiff hairs is a shorter growth of finer and softer hair - termed the undercoat. The coat on the sides is never quite so hard as that on the back and quarters. Some of the hardest coats are "crinkly" or slightly waved, but a curly coat is very objectionable.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Hindquarters|Should be strong and muscular, quite free from droop or crouch; the thighs long and powerful; the stifles well curved and turned neither in nor out; the hock joints well bent and near the ground; the hocks perfectly upright and parallel with each other when viewed from behind. The worst possible form of hindquarters consists of a short second thigh and a straight stifle, a combination which causes the hind legs to act as props rather than instruments of propulsion.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Fun Fact|The Wire Fox Terrier was originally bred to "go to ground" to chase small game from their dens.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Health|Wire Fox Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Wire Fox Terrier|General Appearance|The Terrier should be alert, quick of movement, keen of expression, on the tip-toe of expectation at the slightest provocation. Character is imparted by the expression of the eyes and by the carriage of ears and tail.Bone and strength in a small compass are essential, but this must not be taken to mean that a Terrier should be "cloddy," or in any way coarse - speed and endurance being requisite as well as power. The Terrier must on no account be leggy, nor must he be too short on the leg. He should stand like a cleverly made, short-backed hunter, covering a lot of ground.\'a0N.B.\'a0Old scars or injuries, the result of work or accident, should not be allowed to prejudice a Terrier's chance in the show ring, unless they interfere with its movement or with its utility for work or stud.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Wire Fox Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Wire Fox Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Wires are curious, energetic dogs who need daily exercise and places to explore.\
Wire Fox Terrier|History|1885 - The Wire Fox Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Body|Theneckis strong, muscular, lean and oval in shape; well set off from the nape, and slightly arched. In males the perimeter of the neck can reach the double of its length. Short in appearance, it is less than the total length of the head. Thetopline-well pronounced withers, topline straight from behind the withers to the croup, which is slightly sloping.Body-compact and strong. The length of the dog, measured from the sternum to the ischium is nearly the same as the height.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Forequarters|Shoulder - shoulder blades long (30 percent of the height at withers), well laid back (52 to 55 degrees), muscular, strong and closely attached to the chest, but moving freely. The angle formed between the shoulder blade and the upper arm should be 110 to 115 degrees. Upper Arm-muscular, of thin bone structure, as long as the shoulder blade; its inclination to the horizontal ranges from 58 to 60 degrees. Elbow -tucked firmly against the brisket; covered with thin skin.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Head|When viewed from above theheadis trapezoidal in shape and moderately broad; the upper longitudinal axis of theskulland the muzzle diverge slightly. Cheeks flat. Theeyesare large, but never exaggerated, rounded, filling the socket, set fairly apart. Theearsare medium-sized in proportion to the head, triangular with rounded tips; their base is rather wide; they are set just above the zygomatic arches. Hanging at rest or slightly raised when the dog is attentive. The ears when pulled loosely forward across the cheeks towards the nose tip should cover \'bc of the\'a0length of the muzzle.\'a0Color will vary with coat color from flesh colored to dark brown.\'a0 The nose should be fully pigmented.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Coat|Hair-of woolly texture, never twisted to form thin cords, semi-rough on the surface, with tight, ringshaped curls, with visible undercoat. Curls must be evenly distributed all over the body and tail, except on the head, where the curls are not as tight forming abundant eyebrows, whiskers and beard. Even the cheeks are covered with thickhair. The topcoat and specially the undercoat are water-proof. \'a0The clipped coat must not be longer than a maximum of 1\'bd to 2 inches in a curled state (not brushed out) and it should be uniform with the silhouette of the dog.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Hindquarters|Angulation - in balance with the forequarters. Legs powerful, upright seen from the rear, well proportioned to the size of the dog and parallel. Upper thigh - long (35 percent of the height at withers), with well defined muscles. The axis of the femur has a distinct inclination of 80 degrees to the horizontal. The coxo-femoral angle ranges from 105 to 110 degrees. \'a0The thigh is parallel to the median plane of the body. Stifle-the angle of the stifle ranges from 130 to 135 degrees. Second thigh-slightly longer than the upper thigh (36 percent of the height at withers), well boned and muscled, with marked muscular groove.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Fun Fact|Country of origin is Italy.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Health|Lagotto Romagnolos are generally a healthy breed.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Grooming|The breed's double coat of curly hair does not shed, but requires occasional trimming.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|General Appearance|Small to medium-sized dog, well proportioned, powerfully built, of a rustic appearance, with a dense, curly coat of woolly texture. The dog should give the impression that he has the strength and endurance to work all day in difficult and challenging terrain.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Lagotto Romagnolos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|Exercise|They are easily trained, enjoy their owners, love to take long walks, and basically are very agreeable.\
Lagotto Romagnolo|History|2015 - The Lagotto Romagnolo was officially recognized by the AKC\
Russell Terrier|Body|Thebodyof the Russell Terrier is proportioned marginally longer than tall, measuring slightly longer from the withers to the root of the tail than from the withers to the ground. The overall presentation is a compact, harmonious rectangular silhouette, in sound athletic condition. From the withers to the bottom of the brisket should represent 50 percent of the distance from the withers to the ground. The brisket should never fall below the elbow. The loins are short, strong and well muscled. The tuck up may be described as moderate. Scars incurred while hunting are not to be penalized.\
Russell Terrier|Forequarters|Forelegs are straight in bone from the elbows to the toes whether viewed from the front or the side with a slight angle to the pastern from the side. Legs are moderately well boned. The depth of the body from the withers to the brisket should equal the length of foreleg from elbows to the ground. Severe Faults: Benched or bent legs, leg length either less/more than the depth of body.\
Russell Terrier|Head|Ears-Small V-shaped button or dropped ears carried close to the head of good texture and great mobility. The points of the ears are even with corner of the eye and pointed downward. The fold is level with the top of the skull or slightly above and forms a straight line when alert. Disqualification - Prick or semi-prick ears.Eyes-Dark, almond shaped with a keen expression of alertness. Eyes must not be prominent. Eyelid rims are to be fully pigmented black. Disqualifications - Blue eye or eyes.\
Russell Terrier|Coat|May be smooth, broken or rough. Must be weatherproof: all coat types have an undercoat and a harsh outer coat. Coats are preferably natural and unaltered. The conformation underneath is the same with no preference being given to any particular coat type. The belly and underside should be well covered. The terrier is shown in its natural coat with minimal grooming. Sculpted furnishings are to be severely penalized.\
Russell Terrier|Hindquarters|Muscular and strong; when looking down on the dog, the width of the hindquarters is equal to the width of the shoulders. Angles are equal and balanced front to rear. The hind legs, when viewed from a rear standing position, are parallel. The stifles and low-set hocks are well angulated, allowing for good driving action.\
Russell Terrier|Fun Fact|Country of origin England. Country of development Australia.\
Russell Terrier|Health|Russell Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Russell Terrier|Grooming|Grooming can be a wonderful bonding experience for you and your pet.\
Russell Terrier|General Appearance|The Russell Terrier is a strong, active, lithe, predominately white bodied working Terrier of character with a flexible body of moderate length and rectangular profile. The overall dog must present a balanced image with no one part exaggerated over another. The Russell Terrier is full of life, and moves with confidence that matches his keen expression. Coat may be smooth, broken or rough and may have tan and/or black markings with no preference for coat type or markings. Tail docking is optional.\
Russell Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Russell Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Russell Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Eager, tireless terriers, Russells need plenty of playtime and exercise.\
Russell Terrier|History|2012 - The Russel Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Siberian Husky|Body|Neckmedium in length, arched and carried proudly erect when dog is standing. When moving at a trot, the neck is extended so that the head is carried slightly forward.\'a0Faults-Neck too short and thick; neck too long.\'a0Chest\'a0deep and strong, but not too broad, with the deepest point being just behind and level with the elbows. The ribs are well sprung from the spine but flattened on the sides to allow for freedom of action.\
Siberian Husky|Forequarters|The shoulder blade is well laid back. The upper arm angles slightly backward from point of shoulder to elbow, and is never perpendicular to the ground. The muscles and ligaments holding the shoulder to the rib cage are firm and well developed.Forelegs -When standing and viewed from the front, the legs are moderately spaced, parallel and straight, with the elbows close to the body and turned neither in nor out. Viewed from the side, pasterns are slightly slanted, with the pastern joint strong, but flexible. Bone is substantial but never heavy. Length of the leg from elbow to ground is slightly more than the distance from the elbow to the top of withers. Dewclaws on forelegs may be removed.Feetoval in shape but not long. The paws are medium in size, compact and well furred between the toes and pads. The pads are tough and thickly cushioned. The paws neither turn in nor out when the dog is in natural stance.\
Siberian Husky|Head|Expressionis keen, but friendly; interested and even mischievous.Eyesalmond shaped, moderately spaced and set a trifle obliquely. Eyes may be brown or blue in color; one of each or parti-colored are acceptable.\'a0Faults - Eyes set too obliquely; set too close together.Earsof medium size, triangular in shape, close fitting and set high on the head. They are thick, well furred, slightly arched at the back, and strongly erect, with slightly rounded tips pointing straight up.\'a0Faults - Ears too large in proportion to the head; too wide set; not strongly erect.\
Siberian Husky|Coat|The coat of the Siberian Husky is double and medium in length, giving a well furred appearance, but is never so long as to obscure the clean-cut outline of the dog. The undercoat is soft and dense and of sufficient length to support the outer coat. The guard hairs of the outer coat are straight and somewhat smooth lying, never harsh nor standing straight off from the body. It should be noted that the absence of the undercoat during the shedding season is normal. Trimming of whiskers and fur between the toes and around the feet to present a neater appearance is permissible.\
Siberian Husky|Hindquarters|When standing and viewed from the rear, the hind legs are moderately spaced and parallel. The upper thighs are well muscled and powerful, the stifles well bent, the hock joint well-defined and set low to the ground. Dewclaws, if any, are to be removed.\
Siberian Husky|Fun Fact|The first team of Siberian Huskies made its appearance in the All Alaska Sweepstakes Race of 1909.\
Siberian Husky|Health|Siberian Huskies are generally a healthy breed.\
Siberian Husky|Grooming|Siberians are relatively easy keepers, but their thick coats require weekly brushing.\
Siberian Husky|General Appearance|The Siberian Husky is a medium-sized working dog, quick and light on his feet and free and graceful in action. His moderately compact and well furred body, erect ears and brush tail suggest his Northern heritage. His characteristic gait is smooth and seemingly effortless. He performs his original function in harness most capably, carrying a light load at a moderate speed over great distances. His body proportions and form reflect this basic balance of power, speed and endurance.\
Siberian Husky|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Siberian Huskies is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Siberian Husky|Exercise|New owners should be prepared to provide an outlet for daily exercise.\
Siberian Husky|History|1930 - The Siberian Husky was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Body|Neck, Backline, Body:Neck -The neck is strongly muscled and well set on, of medium length, with no indication of throatiness.Backline-Level. Faults - roached or sway back.Body -The body is deep in chest, with good spring of rib, the brisket reaching to the elbow. Ribs are neither barrel shaped nor flat. The back is strong, short and straight. The loins are strong and muscular, with moderate tuck-up. Fault - slack loins.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Forequarters|The shoulder should be muscular, strong, and well angulated, with the blade roughly equal in length to the upper arm. The elbows should work close to the body, cleanly and evenly. When seen from the front, the foreleg's appearance is that of parallel columns. The pasterns are strong and slightly sloping. Fault - down in the pasterns. Feet - The feet are strongly webbed, slightly oval medium in size, and tight, with well-arched toes and thick pads. Front dewclaws may be removed. Faults - splayed or paper feet.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Head|Theheadis clean-cut and slightly wedge shaped. The broad skull is only slightly rounded, giving the appearance of being flat when the ears are alert. The occiput is not prominent. The cheeks are flat. The length of the skull from the occiput to the stop is slightly longer than the length of the muzzle from the stop to the tip of the nose. The head must be in proportion to body size.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Coat|The Toller was bred to retrieve from icy waters and must have a water-repellent double coat of medium length and softness, and a soft dense undercoat. The coat may have a slight wave on the back, but is otherwise straight. Some winter coats may form a long loose curl at the throat. Featherings are soft and moderate in length. The hair on the muzzle is short and fine. Seasonal shedding is to be expected. Overcoated specimens are not appropriate for a working dog and should be faulted. While neatening of the feet, ears, and hocks for the show ring is permitted, the Toller should always appear natural, never barbered. Whiskers must be present.Faults - coat longer than medium length. Open coat.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are muscular, broad, and square in appearance. The croup is very slightly sloped. The rear and front angulation should be in balance. The upper and lower thighs are very muscular and equal in length. The stifles are well bent. The hocks are well let down, turning neither in nor out. Rear dewclaws must not be present. Disqualification - rear dewclaws.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Fun Fact|The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever is AKC's 150th breed.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Health|Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retrievers are generally a healthy breed.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Grooming|A natural-looking breed, the Toller does not require much coat maintenance.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|General Appearance|This medium sized, powerful, compact, balanced dog is the smallest of the retrievers. The Toller's attitude and bearing suggest strength with a high degree of agility. He is alert, determined, and quick, with a keen desire to work and please.Many Tollers have a slightly sad or worried expression when they are not working. The moment the slightest indication is given that retrieving is required, they set themselves for springy action with an expression of intense concentration and excitement. The heavily feathered tail is held high in constant motion while working.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retrievers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|Exercise|Very Active; Play fetch with a Toller till your right arm falls off, then start throwing lefty.\
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever|History|2003 - The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Maltese|Body|Compact, the height from the withers to the ground equaling the length from the withers to the root of the tail. Shoulder blades are sloping, the elbows well knit and held close to the body. The back is level intopline, the ribs well sprung. The chest is fairly deep, the loins taut, strong, and just slightly tucked up underneath.\
Maltese|Head|Of medium length and in proportion to the size of the dog. Theskullis slightly rounded on top, the stop moderate. The\'a0dropearsare rather low set and heavily feathered with long hair that hangs close to the head.Eyesare set not too far apart; they are very dark and round, their black rims enhancing the gentle yet alert expression. Themuzzleis of medium length, fine and tapered but not snipy. The\'a0nose\'a0is black. The\'a0teeth\'a0meet in an even, edge-to-edgebite, or in a scissors bite.\
Maltese|Coat|The coat is single, that is, without undercoat. It hangs long, flat, and silky over the sides of the body almost, if not quite, to the ground. The long head-hair may be tied up in a topknot or it may be left hanging. Any suggestion of kinkiness, curliness, or woolly texture is objectionable. Color, pure white. Light tan or lemon on the ears is permissible, but not desirable.\
Maltese|Health|Maltese are generally a healthy breed and not commonly afflicted with serious disease.\
Maltese|Fun Fact|The Greeks erected tombs to their Maltese.\
Maltese|Grooming|Maltese should be brushed daily, and groomed often to prevent mats from forming in their long, white coat.\
Maltese|General Appearance|The Maltese is a toy dog covered from head to foot with a mantle of long, silky, white hair. He is gentle-mannered and affectionate, eager and sprightly in action, and, despite his size, possessed of the vigor needed for the satisfactory companion.Size:Weight under 7 pounds, with from 4 to 6 pounds preferred. Overall quality is to be favored over size.\
Maltese|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Maltese is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Maltese|Exercise|Somewhat Active; A classic lapdog, but Maltese still like brisk walks, playtime, and learning tricks.\
Maltese|History|1888 - The Maltese was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bearded Collie|Body|The body is longer than it is high in an approximate ratio of 5 to 4, length measured from point of chest to point of buttocks, height measured at the highest point of the withers. The length of the back comes from the length of the ribcage and not that of the loin. The back is level. The ribs are well sprung from the spine but are flat at the sides. The chest is deep, reaching at least to the elbows. The loins are strong. The level back line blends smoothly into the curve of the rump. A flat croup or a steep croup is to be severely penalized.\
Bearded Collie|Forequarters|The shoulders are well laid back at an angle of approximately 45 degrees; a line drawn from the highest point of the shoulder blade to the forward point of articulation approximates a right angle with a line from the forward point of articulation to the point of the elbow. The tops of the shoulder blades lie in against the withers, but they slope outwards from there sufficiently to accommodate the desired spring of ribs. The legs are straight and vertical, with substantial, but not heavy, bone and are covered with shaggy hair all around. The pasterns are flexible without weakness.\
Bearded Collie|Head|Theheadis in proportion to the size of the dog. Theskullis broad and flat; the stop is moderate; the cheeks are well filled beneath the eyes; themuzzleis strong and full; the foreface is equal in length to the distance between the stop and occiput. The nose is large and squarish. A snipy muzzle is to be penalized. (See Color section for pigmentation.)Eyes- The eyes are large, expressive, soft and affectionate, but not round nor protruding, and are set widely apart. The eyebrows are arched to the sides to frame the eyes and are long enough to blend smoothly into the coat on the sides of the head. (See Color section for eye color.)Ears- The ears are medium sized, hanging and covered with long hair. They are set level with the eyes. When the dog is alert, the ears have a slight lift at the base. Teeth-The teeth are strong and white, meeting in a scissorsbite. Full dentition is desirable.\
Bearded Collie|Coat|The coat is double with the undercoat soft, furry and close. The outercoat is flat, harsh, strong and shaggy, free from wooliness and curl, although a slight wave is permissible. The coat falls naturally to either side but must never be artificially parted. The length and density of the hair are sufficient to provide a protective coat and to enhance the shape of the dog, but not so profuse as to obscure the natural lines of the body. The dog should be shown as naturally as is consistent with good grooming but the coat must not be trimmed in any way. On the head, the bridge of the nose is sparsely covered with hair which is slightly longer on the sides to cover the lips. From the cheeks, the lower lips and under the chin, the coat increases in length towards the chest, forming the typical beard. An excessively long, silky coat or one which has been trimmed in any way must be severely penalized.\
Bearded Collie|Hindquarters|The hind legs are powerful and muscular at the thighs with well bent stifles. The hocks are low. In normal stance, the bones below the hocks are perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other when viewed from the rear; the hind feet fall just behind a perpendicular line from the point of buttocks when viewed from the side. The legs are covered with shaggy hair all around.Tail- The tail is set low and is long enough for the end of the bone to reach at least the point of the hocks. It is normally carried low with an upward swirl at the tip while the dog is standing. When the dog is excited or in motion, the curve is accentuated and the tail may be raised but is never carried beyond a vertical line. The tail is covered with abundant hair.\
Bearded Collie|Fun Fact|The Beardie is one of Britain\'92s oldest breeds.\
Bearded Collie|Health|Bearded Collies are generally a healthy breed.\
Bearded Collie|Grooming|Bearded Collies require a commitment to grooming.\
Bearded Collie|General Appearance|The Bearded Collie is a medium sized dog with a medium length coat that follows the natural lines of the body and allows plenty of daylight under the body. The body is long and lean, and, though strongly made, does not appear heavy. A bright inquiringexpressionis a distinctive feature of the breed. The Bearded Collie should be shown in a natural stance.\
Bearded Collie|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bearded Collies is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bearded Collie|Exercise|Very Active; Beardies are energetic, boisterous dogs who love outdoor exercise in all weather.\
Bearded Collie|History|1976 - The Bearded Collie was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Silky Terrier|Forequarters|Well laid back shoulders, together with proper angulation at the upper arm, set the forelegs nicely under the body. Forelegs are strong, straight and rather fine-boned. Feet small, catlike, round, compact. Pads are thick and springy while nails are strong and dark colored. White or flesh-colored nails are a fault. The feet point straight ahead, with no turning in or out. Dewclaws, if any, are removed.\
Silky Terrier|Head|The head is strong, wedge-shaped, and moderately long.Expressionpiercingly keen,eyessmall, dark, almond shaped with dark rims. Light eyes are a serious fault.Earsare small, V-shaped, set high and carried erect without any tendency to flare obliquely off the skull.\'a0The nose is black\
Silky Terrier|Coat|Straight, single, glossy, silky in texture. On matured specimens the coat falls below and follows the body outline. It should not approach floor length. On the top of the head, the hair is so profuse as to form a topknot, but long hair on the face and ears is objectionable. The hair is parted on the head and down over the back to the root of the tail. The tail is well coated but devoid of plume. Legs should have short hair from the pastern and hock joints to the feet. The feet should not be obscured by the leg furnishings.\
Silky Terrier|Hindquarters|Thighs well muscled and strong, but not so developed as to appear heavy. Well angulated stifles with low hocks which are parallel when viewed from behind. Feet as in front.\
Silky Terrier|Fun Fact|The Silky developed around the turn of the 20th century in Australia.\
Silky Terrier|Health|Silky Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Silky Terrier|Grooming|The Silky Terrier\'92s coat needs regular brushing to keep it mat free.\
Silky Terrier|General Appearance|The Silky Terrier is a true "toy terrier". He is moderately low set, slightly longer than tall, of refined bone structure, but of sufficient substance to suggest the ability to hunt and kill domestic rodents. His coat is silky in texture, parted from the stop to the tail and presents a well groomed but not sculptured appearance. His inquisitive nature and joy of life make him an ideal companion.\
Silky Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Silky Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Silky Terrier|Exercise|Silky Terrier's are keen and energetic, so it's best to keep them occupied.\
Silky Terrier|History|1959 - The Silky Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Forequarters|Shoulder - Blade moderately laid back. Shoulder and upper arm angle is moderate. Elbow -Well tucked in. Forearm - Straight, long, muscled. Pastern - Short, lean, strong and slightly sloping. Feet - Oval, strong, tight, slightly arched. Strong nails and tough firm pads.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Head|Lean broad based wedge shaped as a four-sided pyramid when viewed from the top or in profile. A large base and a definite pointed muzzle.Skull -Flat, almost straight in profile. Prominent brow bone. Barely perceptible frontal furrow. Relatively flat between the ears. Prominent occiput. Planes: The plane of the muzzle very slightly diverges downward from the plane of the skull.\'a0 Stop - Barely defined.Eyes-Very lively expression with small almond shape set slightly oblique. Not rounded or prominent. Eye color ranges from honey to dark brown in accordance with the coat\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Hindquarters|Upright when seen from the back and side. Well muscled and lean. Upper thigh - Long and of medium width, muscled. Stifle joint - Moderate angulation. Second thigh - Long, lean, strong, and well muscled. Hock joint - Medium height, lean, strong, moderately angled. Rear pastern - Strong, short, straight. Without dewclaws. Hind feet - As in front.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Fun Fact|The Portuguese Podengo Pequenos is the AKC's 177th breed.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Health|Portuguese Podengo Poquenos are generally a healthy breed.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Grooming|The breed comes in two varieties, smooth- and wire-coated.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|General Appearance|A wedge shaped head (a four sided pyramid) with erect ears, a sickle shaped tail, a sound skeleton, well muscled: very lively and intelligent, sober and rustic. This is a breed of moderation.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Portuguese Podengo Poquenos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|Exercise|The Portuguese Podengo Pequeno is a very lively and intelligent breed that is easy to train.\
Portuguese Podengo Pequeno|History|2013 - The Portuguese Podengo Pequeno  was officially recognized by the AKC\
Jindo|Health|Jindos are generally a healthy breed.\
Jindo|Fun Fact|The Jindo has been assigned the Non-Sporting Group designation.\
Jindo|Grooming|The breed's short-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Jindo|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Jindos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Jindo|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Jindo|History|2008 - The Jindo was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Basset Fauve de Bretagne|Fun Fact|The Basset Fauve de Bretagne has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Mastiff|Forequarters|Shoulders\'a0moderately sloping, powerful and muscular, with no tendency to looseness. Degree of front angulation to match correct rear angulation.\'a0Legs\'a0straight, strong and set wide apart, heavy boned. Elbows\'a0parallel to body.\'a0Pasterns\'a0strong and bent only slightly.\'a0Feet\'a0large, round, and compact with well arched toes. Black nails preferred.\
Mastiff|Head|In general outline giving a massive appearance when viewed from any angle. Breadth greatly desired.Eyesset wide apart, medium in size, never too prominent.Expressionalert but kindly. Color of eyes brown, the darker the better, and showing no haw. Light eyes or a predatory expression is undesirable.Earssmall in proportion to the skull, V-shaped, rounded at the tips. Leather moderately thin, set widely apart at the highest points on the sides of the skull continuing the outline across the summit. They should lie close to the cheeks when in repose. Ears dark in color, the blacker the better, conforming to the color of the muzzle.\
Mastiff|Coat|Outer coat straight, coarse, and of moderately short length. Undercoat dense, short, and close lying. Coat should not be so long as to produce "fringe" on the belly, tail, or hind legs.\'a0Fault\'a0Long or wavy coat.\
Mastiff|Hindquarters|Hindquarters\'a0broad, wide and muscular.\'a0Second thighs\'a0well developed, leading to a strong hock joint. Stifle joint\'a0is moderately angulated matching the front.\'a0Rear legs\'a0are wide apart and parallel when viewed from the rear. When the portion of the leg below the hock is correctly "set back" and stands perpendicular to the ground, a plumb line dropped from the rearmost point of the hindquarters will pass in front of the foot. This rules out straight hocks, and since stifle angulation varies with hock angulation, it also rules out insufficiently angulated stifles.\'a0Fault - Straight stifles.\
Mastiff|Fun Fact|Caesar described Mastiffs in his account of invading Britain in 55 BC.\
Mastiff|Health|Mastiffs are generally a healthy breed.\
Mastiff|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Mastiff|General Appearance|The Mastiff is a large, massive, symmetrical dog with a well-knit frame. The impression is one of grandeur and dignity. Dogs are more massive throughout. Bitches should not be faulted for being somewhat smaller in all dimensions while maintaining a proportionally powerful structure. A good evaluation considers positive qualities of type and soundness with equal weight.\
Mastiff|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Mastiff is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Mastiff|Exercise|They are destined to be very large dogs, so basic obedience training should be a part of every Mastiff's upbringing.\
Mastiff|History|1885 - The Mastiff was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bull Terrier|Body|Should be well rounded with marked spring of rib, the back should be short and strong. The back ribs deep. Slightly arched over the loin. The shoulders should be strong and muscular but without heaviness. The shoulder blades should be wide and flat and there should be a very pronounced backward slope from the bottom edge of the blade to the top edge. Behind the shoulders there should be no slackness or dip at the withers. The underline from the brisket to the belly should form a graceful upward curve.\
Bull Terrier|Head|Should be long, strong and deep right to the end of the muzzle, but not coarse. Full face it should be oval in outline and be filled completely up giving the impression of fullness with a surface devoid of hollows or indentations, i.e., egg shaped. In profile it should curve gently downwards from the top of the skull to the tip of the nose. The forehead should be flat across from ear to ear. The distance from the tip of the nose to the eyes should be perceptibly greater than that from the eyes to the top of the skull. The underjaw should be deep and well defined.\
Bull Terrier|Coat|Should be short, flat, harsh to the touch and with a fine gloss. The dog's skin should fit tightly.\
Bull Terrier|Health|Bull Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Bull Terrier|Fun Fact|Their coat is short and glossy and requires very little grooming.\
Bull Terrier|Grooming|Their short coats are easy to care for.\
Bull Terrier|General Appearance|The Bull Terrier must be strongly built, muscular, symmetrical and active, with a keen determined and intelligent expression, full of fire but of sweet disposition and amenable to discipline.\
Bull Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bull Terriers is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Bull Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Lots of exercise is needed to prevent boredom and the problem behaviors that come with it.\
Bull Terrier|History|1885 - The Bull Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC\
Estrela Mountain Dog|Health|Estrela Mountain Dogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Estrela Mountain Dog|Fun Fact|The Estrela Mountain Dog has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Estrela Mountain Dog|Grooming|The breed's long-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a brush.\
Estrela Mountain Dog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Estrela Mountain Dogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Estrela Mountain Dog|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Estrela Mountain Dog|History|2004 - The Estrela Mountain Dog was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Komondor|Body|Characterized by a powerful, deep chest, which is muscular and proportionately wide. The breast is broad and well-muscled. The belly is somewhat drawn up at the rear. The rump is wide, muscular, and slopes slightly towards the root of the tail.\
Komondor|Forequarters|Shoulders are well laid back. Forelegs straight, well-boned, and muscular. Viewed from any side, the legs are like vertical columns. The upper arms are carried close to the body, without loose elbows.\
Komondor|Head|The\'a0head\'a0is large. The length of the head from occiput to tip of nose is approximately two-fifths the height of the dog at the withers. The skin around the eyes and on the muzzle is dark.\
Komondor|Coat|Characteristic of the breed is the dense, protective coat. The puppy coat is relatively soft, but it shows a tendency to fall into cord-like curls. The young adult coat, or intermediate coat, consists of very short cords next to the skin which may be obscured by the sometimes lumpy looking fluff on the outer ends of the cords. The mature coat consists of a dense, soft, woolly undercoat much like the puppy coat, and a coarser outer coat that is wavy or curly. The coarser hairs of the outer coat trap the softer undercoat, forming permanent, strong cords that are felt-like to the touch. A grown dog is entirely covered with a heavy coat of these tassel-like cords, which form naturally. It must be remembered that the length of the Komondor's coat is a function of age, and a younger dog must never be penalized for having a shorter coat.\
Komondor|Hindquarters|The steely, strong bone structure is covered with highly-developed muscles. The legs are straight as viewed from the rear. Stifles are well-bent. Rear dewclaws must be removed.\
Komondor|Fun Fact|The plural of Komondor is Komondorok.\
Komondor|Health|Komondorok are generally a healthy breed.\
Komondor|Grooming|Caring for the Komondor coat takes quite a bit of time and effort.\
Komondor|General Appearance|The Komondor is characterized by imposing strength, dignity, courageous demeanor, and pleasing conformation. He is a large, muscular dog with plenty of bone and substance, covered with an unusual, heavy coat of white cords. The working Komondor lives during the greater part of the year in the open, and his coat serves to help him blend in with his flock and to protect him from extremes of weather and beasts of prey.\
Komondor|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Komondorok is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Komondor|Exercise|Somewhat Active; A Kom without a big, fenced-in area to patrol will need two or three good walks daily.\
Komondor|History|1937 - The Komondor was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|Health|Danish-Swedish Farmdogs are generally a healthy breed.\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|Fun Fact|The Danish-Swedish Farmdog has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|Grooming|The breed's short-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Danish-Swedish Farmdogs is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|Exercise|The Danish-Swedish Farmdog, like all dogs, needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and menta\
Danish-Swedish Farmdog|History|2011 - The Danish-Swedish Farmdog was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Chinese Crested|Body|Neck-Neck is lean and clean, slightly arched from the withers to the base of the skull and carried high.Topline-Level to slightly sloping croup.Body-Brisket extends to the elbow. Breastbone is not prominent. Ribs are well developed. The depth of the chest tapers to a moderate tuck-up at the flanks. Light in loin.Tail-Tail is slender and tapers to a curve. It is long enough to reach the hock. When dog is in motion, the tail is carried gaily and may be carried slightly forward over the back. At rest the tail is down with a slight curve upward at the end resembling a sickle. In the Hairless variety, two-thirds of the end of the tail is covered by long, flowing feathering referred to as a plume. The Powderpuff variety's tail is completely covered with hair.\
Chinese Crested|Forequarters|Angulation\'a0- Layback of shoulders is 45 degrees to point of shoulder allowing for good reach.\'a0Shoulders - Clean and narrow.\'a0Elbows\'a0- Close to body.\'a0Legs\'a0- Long, slender and straight.\'a0Pasterns\'a0- Upright, fine and strong. Dewclaws may be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0- Hare foot, narrow with elongated toes. Nails are trimmed to moderate length.\
Chinese Crested|Head|Expression-Alert and intense.Eyes-Almond-shaped, set wide apart. Dark-colored dogs have dark-colored eyes, and lighter-colored dogs may have lighter-colored eyes. Eye rims match the coloring of the dog.Ears-Uncropped large and erect, placed so that the base of the ear is level with the outside corner of the eye.Skull-The skull is arched gently over the occiput from ear to ear. Distance from occiput to stop equal to distance from stop to tip of nose. The head is wedge-shaped viewed from above and the side.\'a0Stop\'a0- Slight but distinct.\
Chinese Crested|Coat|The Hairless variety has hair on certain portions of the body: the head (called a crest), the tail (called a plume) and the feet from the toes to the front pasterns and rear hock joints (called socks). The texture of all hair is soft and silky, flowing to any length. Placement of hair is not as important as overall type. Areas that have hair usually taper off slightly. Wherever the body is hairless, the skin is soft and smooth. Head crest begins at the stop and tapers off between the base of the skull and the back of the neck. Hair on the ears and face is permitted on the Hairless and may be trimmed for neatness in both varieties. Tail plume is described under Tail. The Powderpuff variety is completely covered with a double soft and silky coat. Close examination reveals long thin guard hairs over the short silky undercoat. The coat is straight, of moderate density and length.Excessively heavy, kinky or curly coat is to be penalized. Grooming is minimal-consisting of presenting a clean and neat appearance.\
Chinese Crested|Hindquarters|Angulation\'a0- Stifle moderately angulated. From hock joint to ground perpendicular. Dewclaws may be removed.\'a0Feet\'a0- Same as forequarters.\
Chinese Crested|Fun Fact|The Crested come in two varieties: Hairless and Powderpuff (Powderpuff is genetically recessive).\
Chinese Crested|Health|Chinese Cresteds are generally healthy dogs.\
Chinese Crested|Grooming|If a hairless is your choice, cleanliness and protecting the skin from the sun are very important.\
Chinese Crested|General Appearance|A toy dog, fine-boned, elegant and graceful. The distinct varieties are born in the same litter. The Hairless with hair only on the head, tail and feet and the Powderpuff, completely covered with hair. The breed serves as a loving companion, playful and entertaining.\
Chinese Crested|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Chinese Cresteds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Chinese Crested|Exercise|Chinese Cresteds are as fun as they look: playful, loving, and totally devoted to their humans.\
Chinese Crested|History|1991 - The Chinese Crested was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Basset Hound|Body|The rib structure is long, smooth, and extends well back. The ribs are well sprung, allowing adequate room for heart and lungs. Flatsidedness and flanged ribs are faults. Thetoplineis straight, level, and free from any tendency to sag or roach, which are faults.\
Basset Hound|Forequarters|The chest is deep and full with prominent sternum showing clearly in front of the legs. The shoulders and elbows are set close against the sides of the chest. The distance from the deepest point of the chest to the ground, while it must be adequate to allow free movement when working in the field, is not to be more than one-third the total height at the withers of an adult Basset. The shoulders are well laid back and powerful. Steepness in shoulder, fiddle fronts, and elbows that are out, are serious faults. The forelegs are short, powerful, heavy in bone, with wrinkled skin. Knuckling over of the front legs is a disqualification. The paw is massive, very heavy with tough heavy pads, well rounded and with both feet inclined equally a trifle outward, balancing the width of the shoulders. Feet down at the pastern are a serious fault. The toes are neither pinched together nor splayed, with the weight of the forepart of the body borne evenly on each. The dewclaws may be removed.\
Basset Hound|Head|Theheadis large and well proportioned. Its length from occiput to muzzle is greater than the width at the brow. In overall appearance the head is of medium width. Theskullis well domed, showing a pronounced occipital protuberance. A broad flat skull is a fault. The length from nose to stop is approximately the length from stop to occiput. The sides are flat and free from cheek bumps. Viewed in profile the top lines of the muzzle and skull are straight and lie in parallel planes, with a moderately defined stop. The skin over the whole of the head is loose, falling in distinct wrinkles over the brow when the head is lowered. A dry head and tight skin are faults.\
Basset Hound|Coat|The coat is hard, smooth, and short, with sufficient density to be of use in all weather. The skin is loose and elastic. A distinctly long coat is a disqualification.\
Basset Hound|Hindquarters|The hindquarters are very full and well rounded, and are approximately equal to the shoulders in width. They must not appear slack or light in relation to the overall depth of the body. The dog stands firmly on its hind legs showing a well-let-down stifle with no tendency toward a crouching stance. Viewed from behind, the hind legs are parallel, with the hocks turning neither in nor out. Cowhocks or bowed legs are serious faults. The hind feet point straight ahead. Steep, poorly angulated hindquarters are a serious fault. The dewclaws, if any, may be removed.\
Basset Hound|Fun Fact|The foremost use of the Basset Hound in the United States is for the hunting of rabbits.\
Basset Hound|Health|Basset hounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Basset Hound|Grooming|A Basset hound\'92s short coat, which does shed, requires minimal grooming.\
Basset Hound|General Appearance|The Basset Hound possesses in marked degree those characteristics which equip it admirably to follow a trail over and through difficult terrain. It is a short-legged dog, heavier in bone, size considered, than any other breed of dog, and while its movement is deliberate, it is in no sense clumsy. In temperament it is mild, never sharp or timid. It is capable of great endurance in the field and is extreme in its devotion.\
Basset Hound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Basset Hounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Basset Hound|Exercise|Not Very Active; Bassets are not the most active breed but do need regular walks to stay healthy.\
Basset Hound|History|1935 - The Basset Hound was officially recognized by the AKC\
Great Dane|Body|Theneckshall be firm, high set, well arched, long and muscular. From the nape, it should gradually broaden and flow smoothly into the withers. The neck underline should be clean. Withers shall slope smoothly into a short level back with a broad loin. The chest shall be broad, deep and well muscled. The forechest should be well developed without a pronounced sternum. The brisket extends to the elbow, with well sprung ribs. Thebodyunderline should be tightly muscled with a well-defined tuck-up. The croup should be broad and very slightly sloping.\
Great Dane|Forequarters|The forequarters, viewed from the side, shall be strong and muscular. The shoulder blade must be strong and sloping, forming, as near as possible, a right angle in its articulation with the upper arm. A line from the upper tip of the shoulder to the back of the elbow joint should be perpendicular. The ligaments and muscles holding the shoulder blade to the rib cage must be well developed, firm and securely attached to prevent loose shoulders. The shoulder blade and the upper arm should be the same length. The elbow should be one-half the distance from the withers to the ground. The strong pasterns should slope slightly. The feet should be round and compact with well-arched toes, neither toeing in, toeing out, nor rolling to the inside or outside. The nails should be short, strong and as dark as possible, except that they may be lighter in harlequins. Dewclaws may or may not be removed.\
Great Dane|Head|Theheadshall be rectangular, long, distinguished, expressive, finely chiseled, especially below the eyes. Seen from the side, the Dane's forehead must be sharply set off from the bridge of the nose (a strongly pronounced stop). The plane of the skull and the plane of the muzzle must be straight and parallel to one another. The skull plane under and to the inner point of the eye must slope without any bony protuberance in a smooth line to a full square jaw with a deepmuzzle(fluttering lips are undesirable). The masculinity of the male is very pronounced in structural appearance of the head. The bitch's head is more delicately formed.\
Great Dane|Coat|The coat shall be short, thick and clean with a smooth glossy appearance.\
Great Dane|Hindquarters|The hindquarters shall be strong, broad, muscular and well angulated, with well let down hocks. Seen from the rear, the hock joints appear to be perfectly straight, turned neither toward the inside nor toward the outside. The rear feet should be round and compact, with well-arched toes, neither toeing in nor out. The nails should be short, strong and as dark as possible, except they may be lighter in harlequins. Wolf claws are a serious fault.\
Great Dane|Fun Fact|The Great Dane was developed as a boar hound by the Germans.\
Great Dane|Health|Great Danes are generally a healthy breed.\
Great Dane|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming and the occasional bath.\
Great Dane|General Appearance|The Great Dane combines, in its regal appearance, dignity, strength and elegance with great size and a powerful, well-formed, smoothly muscled body. It is one of the giant working breeds, but is unique in that its general conformation must be so well balanced that it never appears clumsy, and shall move with a long reach and powerful drive. It is always a unit -- the Apollo of dogs. A Great Dane must be spirited, courageous, never timid; always friendly and dependable. This physical and mental combination is the characteristic which gives the Great Dane the majesty possessed by no other breed.\
Great Dane|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for the Great Dane is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Great Dane|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Sedate, easygoing dogs, Danes enjoy a good walk two or three times daily.\
Great Dane|History|1887 - The Great Dane was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Dutch Shepherd|Health|Dutch Shepherds are generally a healthy breed.\
Dutch Shepherd|Fun Fact|The Dutch Shepherd has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Dutch Shepherd|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired coat requires weekly brushing with a brush and slicker brush.\
Dutch Shepherd|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dutch Shepherds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Dutch Shepherd|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Dutch Shepherd|History|2012 - The Dutch Shepherd was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Body|Neckmoderately long and muscular without throatiness. Well developed, especially in males, and in proportion to the dog's build. Neck well set on; fits into strong, well shaped shoulders.Toplinelevel.Bodylong and strong.Chestmoderately broad with prominent breastbone. Deep brisket, with well sprung ribs to allow for good lungs. Ribs extending well back.Loin- short, strong, moderately tucked up. Waist well defined.Croup-Slight downward slope to the tail set.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Forequarters|The moderately broad chest tapers to a deep brisket, well let down between the forelegs.Shouldersslope downward and outward from the withers sufficiently to accommodate desired rib-spring. Shoulder blade (scapula) long and well laid back, meeting upper arm (humerus) at close to a right angle. Humerus nearly as long as scapula.Elbowsshould fit close, being neither loose nor tied. Theforearms(ulna and radius) should be curved to fit spring of ribs. The curve in the forearm makes the wrists (carpal joints) somewhat closer together than the elbows. Thepasternsare strong and flexible. Dewclaws removed.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Head|Theheadshould be refined in accordance with the sex and substance of the dog. It should never appear so large and heavy nor so small and fine as to be out of balance with the rest of the dog.Expressionalert and gentle, watchful, yet friendly.Eyesmedium to large, not bulging, with dark rims and distinct corners. Widely set. Clear and dark in harmony with coat color. Blue eyes (including partially blue eyes), or one dark and one blue eye permissible in blue merles, and in any other coat color than blue merle are adisqualification.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Coat|Medium length but dense as it is double. Outer hairs slightly harsh in texture; never wiry, curly or silky. Lies relatively smooth and is weather resistant. The insulating undercoat is short, soft and thick. A correct coat has short hair on ears, head, the legs; medium hair on body; and slightly longer, thicker hair in ruff, on the backs of the thighs to form "pants," and on the underside of the tail. The coat should not be so exaggerated as to appear fluffy. This breed has a shedding coat, and seasonal lack of undercoat should not be too severely penalized, providing the hair is healthy. Trimming is not allowed except to tidy feet and, if desired, remove whiskers. Soft guard hairs, uniform length, wiry, curly, silky, overly short and/or flat coats are not desired. A distinctly long or fluffy coat is an extremelyserious fault.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Hindquarters|Well muscled and strong, but slightly less wide than shoulders. Hipbone (pelvis) slopes downward with the croup, forming a right angle with the femur at the hip socket. There should be moderate angulation at stifle and hock. Hocks well let down. Metatarsi perpendicular to the ground and parallel to each other. Dewclaws removed.Feetpoint straight ahead and are slightly smaller and more oval than front. Toes arched. Pads well filled.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Fun Fact|The Cardigan springs from the same line of dogs as the Dachshund.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Health|The Cardigan is generally considered to be a healthy dog.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Grooming|The Cardigan is a wash-and-wear dog who requires little grooming.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|General Appearance|Low set with moderately heavy bone and deep chest. Overall silhouette long in proportion to height, culminating in a low tail set and fox-like brush.General Impression--A handsome, powerful, small dog, capable of both speed and endurance, intelligent, sturdily built but not coarse.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Cardigans is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|Exercise|The Cardigan can adapt to country life or city apartments, but need some form of daily exercise.\
Cardigan Welsh Corgi|History|1935 - The Cardigan Welsh Corgi was officially recognized by the AKC\
Sloughi|Body|The chest is not too wide and almost, but not quite, reaches the level of the elbow. Ribs - The ribs are flat, long, and slightly curved in the posterior third of the chest. Underline - The underline starts as a straight line at the sternum and rises up in a smooth curve to the belly. Tuck-up - The belly is well tucked up. Back - The back is short, almost level (horizontal) between the withers and the hip bones. Loin - The loin is short, lean, wide, and slightly arched. Croup-The croup is bony and oblique with apparent hip bones that project above the line of the back to the same height as, or slightly higher than, the withers.\
Sloughi|Forequarters|Angulation - Well open. Shoulders - Shoulder Blades - The shoulder blades are long. Legs - The forelegs are straight, bony, and muscular. The forelegs appear long. Pasterns - The pasterns are slightly sloping, supple, and strong.\
Sloughi|Head|In profile, theheadis long and refined with a deep and sturdy character. From above, it has the shape of a long wedge, tapering from the cranial area to the tip of the nose.Eyes-The eyes are large, dark, well set in their sockets, and oval to almond-shaped. The eye color is shades of dark brown to dark amber. The eye rims are pigmented.Ears-The ears are set at about the level of the eye and droop close to the head when the animal is at rest. The ears are of medium size, triangular in shape, and slightly rounded at the tips. Disqualifications are ears erect, or small and folding backwards in a "rose ear."\
Sloughi|Coat|The coat of the Sloughi is always smooth. The hair is short, tight, and fine all over the body. The Sloughi is presented in natural condition. Disqualifications are coat other than short, tight, and smooth and/or feathering on the ears, tail, and/or legs.\
Sloughi|Hindquarters|Angulation -Open angulation, stifle and hock well open. Legs - When showing, the hind legs should be left in their natural, upright position so that the level (horizontal) line of the back remains apparent. Upper Thigh - The upper thigh is lean, flat, and muscular and, at rest, is nearly vertical. Second Thigh - The second thigh is long and well muscled.\
Sloughi|Fun Fact|The Sloughi is also known as the Arabian Greyhound.\
Sloughi|Health|Sloughis are generally a healthy breed.\
Sloughi|Grooming|The breed's sort-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Sloughi|General Appearance|The Sloughi is a medium-large, short-haired, smooth-coated, athletic sighthound developed in North Africa (in the area including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya) to hunt game such as hare, fox, jackal, gazelle, and wild pigs. It is an ancient breed, treasured in North Africa for its hunting skills, speed, agility, and endurance over long distances. It is a robust, but elegant and racy, pursuit dog with no exaggeration of length of body or limbs, muscle development, angulation, nor curve of loin. The Sloughi is not a fragile dog, but is also a dog with class and grace. The attitude is noble and somewhat aloof, and the expression of the dark eyes is gentle and melancholy.\
Sloughi|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Sloughis is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Sloughi|Exercise|The Sloughi is an intelligent and loyal breed that is somewhat aloof.\
Sloughi|History|2016 - The Sloughi was officially recognized by the AKC\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|Health|Treeing Tennessee Brindles are generally a healthy breed.\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|Fun Fact|The Treeing Tennessee Brindle has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Treeing Tennessee Brindle is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Treeing Tennessee Brindle|History|1995 - The Treeing Tennessee Brindle was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Tibetan Terrier|Body|Neck- \'a0Length proportionate to the body and head.Body- Compact, square and strong, capable of both speed and endurance.Topline- The back is level in motion. Chest - Heavily furnished. The brisket extends downward to the top of the elbow in the mature Tibetan Terrier. Ribs - The body is well ribbed up and never cloddy or coarse. The rib cage is not too wide across the chest and narrows slightly to permit the forelegs to work free at the sides.Loin - Slightly arched.\
Tibetan Terrier|Forequarters|Shoulders- Sloping, well muscled and well laid back.Legs- Straight and strong when viewed from the front. Heavily furnished. The vertical distance from the withers to the elbow equals the distance from the elbows to the ground.Feet- The feet of the Tibetan Terrier are unique in form among dogs. They are large, flat, and round in shape producing a snowshoe effect that provides traction.\
Tibetan Terrier|Head|Eyes- \'a0Large, set fairly wide apart, dark brown and may appear black in color, neither prominent nor sunken. Eye rims are dark in color.Ears- Pendant, falling not too close to the head, heavily feathered with a "V" shaped leather proportionate to the head. Faults - Weak pointed muzzle. Any color other than a black nose. Overshot bite or a very undershot bite or a wry mouth. Long narrow head. Lack of fall over the eyes and foreface.\
Tibetan Terrier|Coat|Double coat. Undercoat is soft and woolly. Outer coat is profuse and fine but never silky or woolly. May be wavy or straight. Coat is long but should not hang to the ground. When standing on a hard surface an area of light should be seen under the dog. The coat of puppies is shorter, single and often has a softer texture than that of adults. A natural part is often present over the neck and back. Fault - Lack of double coat in adults. Sculpturing, scissoring, stripping or shaving are totally contrary to breed type and are serious faults.\
Tibetan Terrier|Hindquarters|Legs- Well furnished, with well bent stifles and the hind legs are slightly longer than the forelegs.Thighs- Relatively broad and well muscled. Hocks - Low set and turn neither in nor out.Feet- Same as forefeet. Dewclaws May be removed.\
Tibetan Terrier|Fun Fact|The Tibetan Terrier was bred and raised in monasteries by lamas almost 2000 years ago.\
Tibetan Terrier|Health|Tibetan Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Tibetan Terrier|Grooming|Their profuse, thick coat requires weekly maintenance.\
Tibetan Terrier|General Appearance|The Tibetan Terrier is a medium-sized dog, profusely coated, of powerful build, and square in proportion. A fall of hair covers the eyes and foreface. The well-feathered tail curls up and falls forward over the back. The feet are large, flat, and round in shape producing a snowshoe effect that provides traction. The Tibetan Terrier is well balanced and capable of both strong and efficient movement. The Tibetan Terrier is shown as naturally as possible.\
Tibetan Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Tibetan Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Tibetan Terrier|Exercise|The athletic heritage of the Tibetan Terrier as a sure footed mountain dog makes them adept in the sport of agility.\
Tibetan Terrier|History|1973 - The Tibetan Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bedlington Terrier|Body|Muscular and markedly flexible. Chest deep. Flat-ribbed and deep through the brisket, which reaches to the elbows. Back has a good natural arch over the loin, creating a definite tuck-up of the underline. Body slightly greater in length than height. Well-muscled quarters are also fine and graceful.\
Bedlington Terrier|Head|Narrow, but deep and rounded. Shorter inskulland longer in jaw. Covered with a profuse topknot which is lighter than the color of the body, highest at the crown, and tapering gradually to just back of the nose. There must be no stop and the unbroken line from crown to nose end reveals a slender head without cheekiness or snipiness. Lips are black in the blue and blue and tans and brown in all other solid and bi-colors.Eyes- Almond-shaped, small, bright and well sunk with no tendency to tear or water. Set is oblique and fairly high on the head. Blues have dark eyes; blues and tans, less dark with amber lights; sandies, sandies and tans, light hazel; livers, livers and tans, slightly darker. Eye rims are black in the blue and blue and tans, and brown in all other solid and bi-colors.\
Bedlington Terrier|Coat|A very distinctive mixture of hard and soft hair standing well out from the skin. Crisp to the touch but not wiry, having a tendency to curl, especially on the head and face. When in show trim must not exceed 1 inch on body; hair on legs is slightly longer.\
Bedlington Terrier|Health|Bedlington Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Bedlington Terrier|Fun Fact|According to some accounts, the breed was used by gypsies and poachers to catch game on the land of the gentry.\
Bedlington Terrier|Grooming|The coat requires trimming by an experienced groomer to keep it in proper form.\
Bedlington Terrier|General Appearance|A graceful, lithe, well-balanced dog with no sign of coarseness, weakness or shelliness. In repose, the dog's expression is mild and gentle, not shy or nervous. Aroused, the dog is particularly alert and full of immense energy and courage. Noteworthy for endurance, Bedlingtons also gallop at great speed, as their body outline clearly shows.\
Bedlington Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bedlington Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bedlington Terrier|Exercise|Very Active; Bedlingtons combine terrier energy with the sprinting ability of small coursing hounds.\
Bedlington Terrier|History|1886 - The Bedlington Terrier was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Japanese Chin|Health|Japanese Chin are generally a healthy breed.\
Japanese Chin|Fun Fact|The name Japanese Chin is actually a misnomer for the breed owes its basic origins not to Japan, but to China.\
Japanese Chin|Grooming|Their silky and flowing coat is surprisingly low maintenance.\
Japanese Chin|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Japanese Chin is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Japanese Chin|Exercise|The Japanese Chin is a bright, alert and playful breed.\
Japanese Chin|History|1888 - The Japanese Chin was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Bracco Italiano|Health|Bracco Italianos are generally a healthy breed. But like all breeds there may be some health issues.\
Bracco Italiano|Fun Fact|The Bracco Italiano is also known as the Italian Pointer.\
Bracco Italiano|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Bracco Italiano|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Bracco Italianos is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Bracco Italiano|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Bracco Italiano|History|2001 - The Bracco Italiano was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Dachshund|Body|Neck: Long, muscular, clean-cut, without dewlap, slightly arched in the nape, flowing gracefully into the shoulders without creating the impression of a right angle.Trunk:The trunk is long and fully muscled. When viewed in profile, the back lies in the straightest possible line between the withers and the short, very slightly arched loin.\'a0 A body that hangs loosely between the shoulders is a serious fault.\'a0 Abdomen-Slightly drawn up.\
Dachshund|Forequarters|For effective underground work, the front must be strong, deep, long and cleanly muscled. Forequarters in detail: Chest - The breast-bone is strongly prominent in front so that on either side a depression or dimple appears. When viewed from the front, the thorax appears oval and extends downward to the mid-point of the forearm. The enclosing structure of the well-sprung ribs appears full and oval to allow, by its ample capacity, complete development of heart and lungs. The keel merges gradually into the line of the abdomen and extends well beyond the front legs.\
Dachshund|Head|Viewed from above or from the side, theheadtapers uniformly to the tip of the nose. Theeyesare of medium size, almond-shaped and dark-rimmed, with an energetic, pleasant expression; not piercing; very dark in color. The bridge bones over the eyes are strongly prominent. Wall eyes, except in the case of dappled dogs, are a serious fault. Theearsare set near the top of the head, not too far forward, of moderate length, rounded, not narrow, pointed, or folded. Their carriage, when animated, is with the forward edge just touching the cheek so that the ears frame the face. Theskullis slightly arched, neither too broad nor too narrow, and slopes gradually with little perceptible stop into the finely-formed, slightly archedmuzzle,giving a Roman appearance.Lips are tightly stretched, well covering the lower jaw. Nostrils well open. Jaws opening wide and hinged well back of the eyes, with strongly developed bones and teeth. Teeth-Powerful canine teeth; teeth fit closely together in a scissorsbite. An even bite is a minor fault. Any other deviation is a serious fault.\
Dachshund|Coat|Can be Smooth, Wirehaired or Longhair.\
Dachshund|Hindquarters|Strong and cleanly muscled. The pelvis, the thigh, the second thigh, and the rear pastern are ideally the same length and give the appearance of a series of right angles. From the rear, the thighs are strong and powerful. The legs turn neither in nor out. Rear pasterns - Short and strong, perpendicular to the second thigh bone. When viewed from behind, they are upright and parallel.\
Dachshund|Fun Fact|The Dachshund was developed in Germany more than 300 years ago to hunt badgers (dachs, badgers; hund, dog).\
Dachshund|Health|Dachshunds are generally a healthy breed.\
Dachshund|Grooming|All Dachshunds need regular grooming.\
Dachshund|General Appearance|Low to ground, long in body and short of leg, with robust muscular development;the skin is elastic and pliable without excessive wrinkling. Appearing neither crippled, awkward, nor cramped in his capacity for movement, the Dachshund is well-balanced with bold and confident head carriage and intelligent, alert facial expression. His hunting spirit, good nose, loud tongue and distinctive build make him well-suited for below-ground work and for beating the bush. His keen nose gives him an advantage over most other breeds for trailing.\
Dachshund|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Dachshunds is very important from puppyhood to his senior years.\
Dachshund|Exercise|Dachshunds are lovable, playful companions, and an ideal pet for many homes.\
Dachshund|History|1885 - The Dachshund was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Scottish Terrier|Body|Thebodyshould be moderately short with ribs extending well back into a short, strong loin, deep flanks and very muscular hindquarters. The ribs should be well sprung out from the spine, forming a broad, strong back, then curving down and inward to form a deep body that would be nearly heart-shaped if viewed in cross-section. Thetoplineof the back should be firm and level. Thechestshould be broad, very deep and well let down between the forelegs. The forechest should extend well in front of the legs and drop well down into the brisket. The chest should not be flat or concave, and the brisket should nicely fill an average man's slightly-cupped hand. The lowest point of the brisket should be such that an average man's fist would fit under it with little or no overhead clearance.\
Scottish Terrier|Forequarters|The shoulders should be well laid back and moderately well knit at the withers. The forelegs should be very heavy in bone, straight or slightly bent with elbows close to the body, and set in under the shoulder blade with a definite forechest in front of them. Scottish Terriers should not be out at the elbows. The forefeet should be larger than the hind feet, round, thick and compact with strong nails. The front feet should point straight ahead, but a slight "toeing out" is acceptable. Dew claws may be removed.\
Scottish Terrier|Head|The head should be long in proportion to the overall length and size of the dog.Thenoseshould be black, regardless of coat color, and of good size, projecting somewhat over the mouth and giving the impression that the upper jaw is longer than the lower. Theteethshould be large and evenly spaced, having either a scissor or level bite, the former preferred. The jaw should be square, level and powerful. Theeyesshould be set wide apart and well in under the brow. They should be small, bright and piercing, and almond-shaped not round.\
Scottish Terrier|Coat|The Scottish Terrier should have a broken coat. It is a hard, wiry outer coat with a soft, dense undercoat. The coat should be trimmed and blended into the furnishings to give a distinct Scottish Terrier outline. The dog should be presented with sufficient coat so that the texture and density may be determined. The longer coat on the beard, legs and lower body may be slightly softer than the body coat but should not be or appear fluffy.\
Scottish Terrier|Hindquarters|The thighs should be very muscular and powerful for the size of the dog with the stifles well bent and the legs straight from hock to heel. Hocks should be well let down and parallel to each other.\
Scottish Terrier|Fun Fact|The Scottish Terrier was bred in Scotland as a fierce hunter of foxes and badgers.\
Scottish Terrier|Health|Scottish Terriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Scottish Terrier|Grooming|The Scottie coat requires regular brushing and clipping to maintain the characteristic breed outline.\
Scottish Terrier|General Appearance|The Scottish Terrier is a small, compact, short-legged, sturdily-built dog of good bone and substance. His head is long in proportion to his size. He has a hard, wiry, weather-resistant coat and a thick-set, cobby body which is hung between short, heavy legs. These characteristics, joined with his very special keen, piercing, "varminty" expression, and his erect ears and tail are salient features of the breed. The Scottish Terrier's bold, confident, dignified aspect exemplifies power in a small package.\
Scottish Terrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Scottish Terriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Scottish Terrier|Exercise|Somewhat Active; Brisk walks, exploring the yard or park, and upbeat play will satisfy their exercise needs.\
Scottish Terrier|History|1885 - The Scottish Terrier was officially recognized the AKC.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Body|Neck and Throat- clean with no excess of skin, neck of medium length, rising from the shoulders cleanly; strong but not loaded, smooth.Fault- short, thick neck carried in line with the shoulders; throatiness. Shoulder-blade sloping forward and downward at a 45 degree angle to the ground; presenting a laid back appearance, neither loaded nor heavy, providing freedom of movement and strength. Length of shoulder blade and upper arm to be equal.Chest and Ribs- Depth of chest is more important than width; descending to the approximate point of elbow. Ribs well sprung, never flat or slab-sided. Back and Loins - Strong, muscular back of moderate length; topline nearly level or sloping slightly from shoulder to rear.Faults- higher in the rear (hips) than at the withers, roached or sway-back..\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Head|Ears- Should be set moderately low and of medium length, reaching or nearly reaching to the tip of the nose; oval or round at the tip, hanging gracefully towards the muzzle. Fault - short ears set high on the head.Eyes- large, set well apart with soft hound-like expression, pleading and gentle; dark in color, brown or black. Fault - yellow or light eyes, protruding or small.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Coat|Smooth hair that is glossy and short, yet dense enough for protection while being a close and hard hound coat. Fault - too short or thin or too soft.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Health|Treeing Walker Coonhounds are generally a healthy breed.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Fun Fact|The Treeing Walker Coonhound is AKC's 174th breed.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Grooming|The breed's short coat needs little maintenance beyond regular weekly grooming with a brush and the occasional bath.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|General Appearance|Characteristics - Called 'the people's choice' among all coonhound breeds, the energetic Treeing Walker is perfectly suited for the task for which it was bred - tracking and treeing wild raccoons in their natural haunts. The breed's competitive spirit makes it an ideal choice for competitive coonhound events where the breed excels. The Treeing Walker Coonhound is alert, intelligent, active, courteous, and courageous with extreme endurance and the desire to perform.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Treeing Walker Coonhounds is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|Exercise|Alert and active, with extreme endurance and the desire to perform, the Treeing Walker Coonhound needs regular exercise.\
Treeing Walker Coonhound|History|2012 - The Treeing Walker Coonhound was officially recognized by the AKC.\
Kishu Ken|Health|Kishu Kens are generally a healthy breed.\
Kishu Ken|Fun Fact|The Kishu Ken has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Kishu Ken|Grooming|The breed's medium-haired, coat requires weekly brushing with a brush or comb.\
Kishu Ken|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Kishu Kens is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Kishu Ken|Exercise|Needs regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Kishu Ken|History|2005 - The Kishu Ken has been recorded in the Foundation Stock Service\
Portuguese Sheepdog|Fun Fact|The Portuguese Sheepdog has been assigned the Herding Group designation.\
Tosa|Fun Fact|The Tosa has been assigned the Working Group designation.\
Transylvanian Hound|Fun Fact|The Transylvanian Hound has been assigned the Hound Group designation.\
Jagdterrier|Health|Jagdterriers are generally a healthy breed.\
Jagdterrier|Fun Fact|The Jagdterrier has been assigned the Terrier Group designation.\
Jagdterrier|Grooming|The breed's short-haired, smooth coat requires weekly brushing with a soft bristle brush or hound glove.\
Jagdterrier|Nutrition & Feeding|Good nutrition for Jagdterriers is very important from puppyhood to their senior years.\
Jagdterrier|Exercise|Need regular exercise to keep them healthy and fit both physically and mentally.\
Jagdterrier|History|2014 - The Jagdterrier was recorded in the Foundation Stock Service since June 2014.\
Slovensky Cuvac|Fun Fact|The Slovensky Cuvac has been assigned the Herding Group designation.}